================================================================================
FILE: behavioural.pdf
PAGES: 23
================================================================================
--- PAGE 1 ---
Behavioral instances 
Monday, May 06, 2024 1:55 PM 
Conflicts 1. Physio extension app  • Pushback from solutions architect and senior PMs for claims regarding launching an extension feature asa majority of cases get approved anyway – so they are wondering why cant we just auto approve theextension upto a certain value? Problem with was it defeats the business purpose of the extension appas we needed case managers to be more involved in accepting or declining extensions becauseotherwise physios want to keep treating injured workers and wsbc is paying a lot in insurance.   2. Injured worker portal  • Scope of MVP1 wasn’t well defined/ technicality wasn’t clear. For example the user story was – workerscan submit one single-item receipt for reimbursement.  Confusion for devs and scrum master - What does this mean though? Just upload to front end? Uploadto backend into the CMS? Or mid-way upload to browser and store it there?   3. Injured worker portal  • New prototype was made available before devs were able to complete currents print goal devs prefermaking changes now before committing changes to current sprint goal. Scrum master's objection is itcould expand our scope and we get locked into it. Look to PO to make sure scope is not expanded.   4. Prioritizing internal processes over user experience  Flow A. for each category of expense, users are expected to start up a new form and choose a categorybecause internally that's how data flows. It would be manual work for case managers internally  5. Hiring a BE or not for pod  Who does the BE benefit? Po or dev? Some concerns – he said/ she said, who will the dev team go to forquestions? Po or dev?  6. Overwhelming requests from business stakeholders at sprint review  Tian and sannie derailing scope by adding new feature requests (add ai, add links to pages, etc.) to avoidburnout for CMs and doc uploader   7. Telus health disagreement with harm about vision of portal vision Swapping from bceid to forgerock because prov govt is taking bceid down is a good time to revisitcontract and negotiate terms -  Just swapping alone telus is charging half a million dollars. We are paying $50K per month for servicedesk and portal maintenance. This portal was initially built for wsbc and we don’t own an intellectualproperty. We don’t have access to the portal back end. We cant buy the portal because we don’t have the skillset that knows how to operate the portal. If weare using forgerock now is a good time to consider absorbing the portal or getting part access to ourproduct   8. What could be causing bugs post production  
  9. Importance of failing tests for every new development  10. When do I need dev support? Is this something I can solve? Is it a config issue? Ask howard - Mps date of service/ fee codes issue  
  11. Prioritization scenario based question  MPS – pxt application -> Introducing a new service (ability to request extensions digitally vs making a faxor phone call) vs improving user experience (implementing a pdf reader or AI data extraction to avoidusers entering redundant information) 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 12. Tech debt is not always bad.  Introducing tech debt for bceid was being considered if we wanted total absorption of bceid/ telushealth by mps. Introducing tech debt now would be beneficial long term. This was happening at the timewhen working group was condering different options to implement bceid retirement – like for likereplacement of bceid with forgerock, wsbc taking on cpr and onboarding/ registration, eliminating telusentirely by housing artifacts, user resources etc.     13. Challenging experience Working on products that you have no access to. As a new po at wsbc protocol is to work with and getacquainted with the product but with telus health there was no access as it was built by them for wsbc.Used video, spoke to stakeholders, created ….   14. Using simpler design and workflows as angular was slowing things down. A lot was being spent for very little work done. All projects were running behind schedule. Spent $600kfor 4 screens for wor (a lot of it was spent on upgrading angular versions for security purposes).  Toavoid that, POs and PMs along with designers to build designs that are simple. Or use a hybrid approachbetween waterfall and agile where story points for every user story are estimated before hand. To bemore pro-active, use developers and designers at the time of discovery for pxt forms portion (build newweb forms or use doc uploader). All this while an enterprise level conversation is going on about movingaway from angular. We need something where there one block of code that connects to differentdatabases vs devs coding every element out (angular)   15. Had to immediately cut the scope down at the time a dev pod was made available in 2 weeks (at leastone month earlier much earlier than anticipated) Issues with that – back end work, architectural designs weren't ready, telus/ vendor dependencies – stillin conversation with telus for integrations and work required on their end  Considerations – what front end work could start for development that wasn’t dependent on back enddecisions, how could scope be narrowed without compromising on user experience/ benefit andbusiness value, scope couldn’t be too small so that the pod would only need 2 weeks to complete andthen they had no work   16. Potential impact on bceid project  To reduces costs paid to telus by $145K, made cosmetic changes to authentication call and no structuralchanges. To do this we designed the solution that had minimal impact or changes for vendor in terms ofintegrations that needed to build (telus). We emulated the bceid call and passed on the same tokens asbefore.   17. What has been challenging as PO/PM? Context switching, back to back meetings – but time with directors is hard to get so how do you makesure  youre not wasting time and still drive conversations well    18. Working with an experienced/ senior team helps anticipate problems and mitigate them. See examplebelow   19. Would each of the button below one front end project or multiple ones? Would each button need aseparate app? For some team earlier they assumed they could have 1 solution but they failed securityand that delayed the project by 1 year (ask william dev on pioneers this) 
 
20. Design process / rationale  We wanted minimum screens to be built out leveraging existing ux/ui. Initially design/ flow wasbuilt out differently where providers needed to enter injured worker info after choosing requesttype for each service they requested (as follows)  


--- PAGE 3 ---
   
 So screen 2 would need to be built out/ linked to 6 times   Instead we moved screens around for the provider to first enter injured worker information nomatter what the request is. This was we build it out only once, better user experience, providerscan add multiple requests for one single claim without having the need to keep entering info forsame worker and the injured worker information can be validated before a provider goes throughall the steps while requesting a service (as follows) 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
21. Increased scope of project when it aligned better with business objectives  We increased the scope of the provider expansion project by introducing screening questions andthe provider invoice api (that included the nature of the contract providers have with wsbc) forthe following reasons: • The screening questions would educate providers on which service/ program to choose whichwould reduce the possibility of errors and redoing their request later on  • The above would help wsbc qa department  • The api would ensure only the services a provider has signed up for would show as valid options tochoose from • This scope change would only add to front end development and nothing backend would change(cms or database related). This is treated as an onboarding tool for new providers  • The api already exists and we only need to expose it to the tool  


--- PAGE 5 ---
 
• Michael was informed pretty late that he was going to be a full-time architect on the providerexpansion project, which means he didn’t get the chance to create the entire architect for theproposed solution. So we wouldn’t be able to go to sys test by end of oct which would impact ourtimelines and target launch date. • Right now security team is swamped, so everything is  uncommitted. What helped me here is tony(experienced dev well versed with doc uploader and environments). He suggested to have dev envw/o threat model ready. 
Prioritization example -  Form 6 was implementing a body map for injured workers to pick and choose area of injury.Stakeholders thought this could be useful for providers too for the provider extension app (60 daysrequest). But this would not only increase the scope to translate that image as info for case managersbut also it didn’t make sense for providers as injured workers may or may not know what the area ofinjury is (what it is called in medical terms). But providers should know it and it is not adding any valuefor them. Something as simple as text box should suffice for phase 1       Example of where you used data to make product decisions  - we were debating launch of two features: call back request and ping feature. Goal of call back was tostreamline communication and service for physios. Goal of ping was if a request in stuck in pending formore than 1 week, providers can ping a cm for more info as to why it is stuck. We used data to de-prioritize the ping feature as most request on average were resolved within 3 days from the date ofsubmission. So most requests we actually not stuck in pending for too long for the ping feature to bevaluable. Decided to experiment with the call back feature  instead so that case managers have thediscretion to call back based on the reason providers have requested. But if providers have questionsabout payments etc. They should be re-routed to call center as this doesn’t need CO input. This toolwould implement screening questions and branching to avoid tasks that have nothing to do with CMs toreach them.   this shows how many PT extension requests are per day of aging.  I've grouped the requests by the yearthey were submitted and it's actually sort of encouraging.  The proportion of requests are that resolvedwithin 3 days of submission has increased.  Caveat: still trying to verify whether any of this includes faxesrequests... my feeling is it doesn't but it's hard to tell. The numbers you see in this graph are: thepercentage of requests resolved in Y number of days that year and the absolute count of requestsbeside it  This data also shows how 27% of requests get resolved on the same day. This is concerning as we arentsure if CMs arent looking at details before approving these requests. This is a problem because we wantCMs more involved/  


--- PAGE 6 ---
 Questions to ask at PM interviews • How does funding for projects work at your company? Through ideas or financials such as ebitda,npv through sensitivity analysis? • How frequently does a PM need to acquire funds  
Impact I made -  1. Improved research questions and surveys. Provider Segmentation - Miro Though discovery we identified that the pxt app is not being used by physiotherapists but their officeadmin. But surveys were filled out by physiotherapsists. So there was a bias in survey results as when ascore is poor and they are dissatisfied with wsbc, we arent sure if they are dissatisfied by the contractterms (poor rates) or dissatisfied with the tool itself. We don’t currently ask on the surveys for roles thatare filling out the surveys. We don’t know who actually fills the survey out. When they say responserates are poor, we don’t know responsiveness on what is poor.   2. In future discovery through focus groups, surveys, - important to note about physiotherapistsinformation sharing preferences. This would help to design better web forms that can proactivelyhelp capture effective information for case managers For example  • Physios don’t want to fill out functional abilities on the web form. They want to be paid more forthat • Clinics arent comfortable in sharing other info like what is the reason for delay in treatment. Forthis, patients need to give consent. They would rather wsbc reaches out to patients directly.  We don’t have enough research on this    3. What is the level of self serve that providers would enjoy with forgerock implementation? Do theywant to be able to grant and revoke access by themselves?  This would help make decisions on vendor management and get rid of them if required asproviders will have more control on their experiences and wsbc wouldn’t have to pay telus forpoor service. We already have evidence that telus is a poor vendor but we don’t know clientimpact.  questions like how often are your calls redirected from telus to wsbc. How often are yourquestions not answered by telus. Telus' helpdesk usually answers all provider questions, but wedon’t follow up with surveys or feedback on service performance.   4. Improved data tracking and measuring performance metrics Provider expansion measures.docx 
Working with devs  • At tsbc preference was for PRDs • But at wsbc, devs preferred high fidelity prototypes as there are challenges with prd versioncontrol, stagnant documents. Version control is easier with prototypes, can socialize the ideabetter, changes are dynamic. 
Examples of smaller use cases that were deprioritized-  1. Ping feature  2. Pdf conversion/ reader to auto-populate web form  3. Requests without a claim number. Should be providers be allowed to proceed with making arequest without a valid claim number  4.  
How do you respond to team B needs your devs? - think of how the healthcare pod was looking at embedding cms devs into carebears     How do you as PO respond to tasks that show up on your backlog that originate as part of the productbacklog? For example security related tasks or software being deprecated? How do you use POdiscretion here?      

--- PAGE 7 ---
Negotiating with designers to build new design components.  
 As po I wanted something more cleaner, like linkedin requests where the character counter in inside thebox on the bottom right hand corner as 90/100 and keeps reducing from there. But this would needdavid to create a new design component as a template doesn’t exist already. Decided to deprioritize thisas was not critical to the project, no other projects probably see value in this right now and my projectdidn’t have a lot of open text fields.  But if there are other bigger projects that were form heavy that would benefit from it, it is important tohave that. 
Building design artifacts with david – for multiple reasons  • Easier for product to communicate with devs and BE for user stories  • More effective for devs as visual cues into functionality  • Artifacts for design so when we do scale the product out to other provider types, we can reuse most of this  • ux-demo.online.dv.worksafebc.com/UXGUIDES/guide-errorhandling.html 
  
 


--- PAGE 8 ---
  
BCeID  • Shipped an enterprise authentication tool using SAML authentication enabling fast authorizationchecks at enormous scale while maintaining a flexible model that can be adapted to even the mostcomplex use cases. Built a role-based access control with other features such as SSO, MFA, usermanagement and self-serve (forgerock implementation) 
Is there a product that you can think of, if you could freeze time, and work on it with your team more,what would you change about it? In the context of the same product goal/ business goal • Design • Features/ function • Implementation •  
Different orgs have different processes and workflows to do product Tsbc didn’t have a r&d/ experience team Wsbc had a very dedicated team. It was easier for me as a PM to shape experiences and build to mystrengths, show my impact by improving surveys and defining goals of product/ teams  
Can you think of an example of when you have interacted with a bunch of PMs and you realize a system/product is too complex but everyone made all the right local decisions and yet together they are toocomplex and so you've had to revisit the system.  
Can you think of a time when you thought you could ship a product really fast but then realized youcouldn’t and had to pivot?  
Helped PMs develop pods by taking an active part in recruitment  • Mistake I made at tsbc was, candidates didn’t have long term plan for product or to be in it • Structured questions to test real day to day product experiences  

--- PAGE 9 ---
How else did you improve research at WSBC? In second round of discovery removed a control for that version of prototype to see if users missed it,didn’t care for it, wanted demand for that feature 
Think of a time when you took an idea and socialized it  Innofest sep 2024 – Death to pdfs – project InfoX   
Give a brief description for your idea  
We want to use data-sharing APIs and standards to digitally exchange information with health care providers.  Thiswould require building robust internal systems that allow for rapid API design, development, testing and publishingwith the goal of seamless API integrations with EMR vendors – amongst other possible solutions. 
 
What is your vision for your idea 
Whether we create our own standards and APIs, or adopt industry ones (for ex: Jane), we envision a data-sharingecosystem that: 
• Frees up capacity for WorkSafeBC developers by eliminating redundant, manual and complex internal backendsystem integrations while also reducing dependencies for API access • Makes it easier for EMR vendor developers to integrate with our APIs • Inspires the confidence of health care providers by being reliable, secure, and tightly integrated with their existingprocesses, • Improves the decision-making capabilities of WorkSafeBC by creating a rich and dynamic data landscape, • Supports the recovery and RTW of injured workers by ensuring that information about their care and claim iscurrent, accurate, and coordinate between WorkSafeBC and health care providers. 
 
 
What problem will your idea solve? Which stakeholders are affected? 
For InnoFest, our team will focus on where our main interests and expertise lie - health care providers. However,benefits of this idea would expand beyond that. Our goal is to test this idea with PDF forms pertaining tohealthcare providers (physiotherapy) and if successful, eventually expand to other major stakeholder groupsincluding employers and injured workers. 
 
Every year, more than 20,000 health care providers rely on over 150 forms to send WorkSafeBC information aboutthe injured workers they treat.  Providers download these forms from our website in PDF format.  Oncecompleted, providers submit over 600,000 of them per year to WorkSafeBC by website upload, fax, and evenpostal mail.  This is despite the challenges that WorkSafeBC and providers have with forms completed andsubmitted in this manner.  
  
PDF-based forms create a constellation of problems that include - 
• Highly complex to integrate PDF forms and their contents with databases and other applications, • Data that is “locked-in” on the PDF, inaccessible to data analytics, • Lack of version control, resulting in out-of-date forms circulating and incomplete forms being submitted, • Limited interactive and dynamic features such as real-time data and form type validation, auto-completion, andbranching logic, • High sustainment costs of creating, updating, and storing PDF forms. 
 
What are the biggest benefits of your idea? 
Our idea will unlock the full value of the data and information that are currently 
  
For WorkSafeBC - 
• Robust internal systems and data exchange standards making API integrations easier for external partners such asEMR vendors • Cleaner, standardized data - Data collect by API has passed validations, saving data cleanup and data prep tasks • Enhanced data analytics - Incoming data is well-structured and immediately ready for analysis, enabling faster andbetter decision-making 
 
For health care providers - 
• Improved confidence - APIs help providers to submit and receive complete, correct, and current information toand from WorkSafeBC, reducing phone calls and assuring payments, • More efficient business processes - By integrating data-exchange APIs or standards into their clinic software,providers can use their usual in-clinic workflows when seeing and reporting on WorkSafeBC patients. 
 
For workers - 
• Can focus on recovery and RTW - workers will no longer need to fill in nor suffer missing information between theirprovider and WorkSafeBC, • Receive better care - workers’ health care providers are empowered with more and current information abouttheir claim and clinical status. 
 
Which categories apply to your idea? 

--- PAGE 10 ---
• Eliminate pain points  • Free up capacity with purpose • Enhance knowledge sharing • Other 
 
 
Who from your team will participate  
Howard, Linda, David, Taric? 
 
Additional comments 
WorkSafeBC is far behind the times making it difficult for providers to work with us, old-school PDFs being one ofthe many problems. While InfoX’s vision is to create a new data exchange standard for healthcare providers first,this will prove as a good first step to address a corporate problem that WorkSafeBC is a burden to work with. Wewant to be a preferred choice in the future.  
 
How did  you make sure you're mitigating risks of delay in project and running out of funding beforeyou've built at least major/ most useful components of the project.  • we looked to structure the build so that parts of the product are built only when resources areavailable for sure (example cms) • But cms discovery had started earlier already as not the entire pod capacity was required  • Met with cms POs and PMs to anticipate roadblocks and mitigation strategies (for example – nopaper forms were involved for cvpts or 60 days. This made the build easier from cms side, noradicle changes were required for service plan changes). Also got a sense of cms discovery andbuild timelines. Understood cms models would need to be changed to we became proactive byusing fake data in parallel to cms discovery • Built vertical slices  • Met with devs frequently to understand implications of prototype and what parts would be mostcomplicated or take long to build. Given that understood any that needed uploaders would behard to build, so tried to find ways we could reuse code from other projects such as WOR. Gotdevs from both projects to conduct KTs  • Re-did slices so that dev can be completed in time, condensed forms so that there is no additionalbuild and less dependency on cms 
Impact you've had as a product person on the culture of your team  • For innofest got most people from healthcare pod to put in ideas that were not only for orgbenefit but also would benefit their projects and they would have some outcome to take withthem if it went forward. • So whichever idea would win would take the healthcare pod forward and get visibility – buildingground up support for these projects and get early feedback before we even win any funding. Sothat when we do get funding we can hit the ground running  • How do you take an idea and start socializing it.  • Meeting with new devs on the pod and wsbc (joanna zhou), giving product demos and explainingwhat we're doing, why we're doing it • Ideas submitted: ○ Zak (BE) - intelligent project planning Idea view | Planbox ○ Khush, howard, linda (PO and SMEs) - InfoX and data sharing systems Idea view | Planbox ○ Madhu (dev) - local angular testing Idea view | Planbox • Negotiating with designers and experience team to reduce overwhelming amounts of text andcleaner designs, display options. Got pushback about other products in the company are using thisway of doing it and this is pretty "standard" - idea is to be experimental and have your product bethe new precedence in the company 
Most problems don’t require formal product discovery  • Think of examples of this and how you failed by wasting resources  

--- PAGE 11 ---
How do you make sure most value is built out before you run out of money • Importance of slicing. Went through multiple rounds of this with devs and business andarchitects  • Vertical slicing vs horizontal  
Usability improvement examples  Most users already know claim numbers. It is too much text to have at the very top. Put in a tooltip nextto claim number instead   
  Sub text below wasn't adding a lot of value. Page looked chunky. Removed sub-text 
 When they say yes they have more info to share, the next field shouldn’t be optional – otherwise userscan just select no instead 


--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
During user stories planning and estimation, what happens if your devs arent on the same page aboutthe effort required for a specific story? For example  • Asked whoever voted 2 why do they estimate so little? • Get devs to talk and understand nuances, find a middle ground  
  
For features that don’t need to change, you still need an acceptance criteria for devs to be on the samepage. For example for track requests, although there are no enhancements happening in slice 1, it isimportant that feature still works as it currently and it should not break as it will be made available forproviders to use in the first release. This is important because we need dev capacity and time to test/make sure track requests still works in QA. Users will be able to track requests like they currently do 
Being proactive about future roadblocks -  Pxt was going to be transferred from pioneers to carebears after the first slice. To reduce friction  • We got madhu and tony from carebears to shadow  • Did some KT sessions 
Example of user stories and mentioning what should be allowed but also what should not be allowed  • While doc uploader takes file types such as docx, pdf, jpeg etc. Our application would not acceptany document formats  • Need to mention that in user story 


--- PAGE 13 ---
 
Example of how user stories were becoming confusing for devs  • by using the word upload, devs were confused that an api would be involved but the upload wasonly storing in memory/ session data/ nothing was being transferred to backend till they hoitsubmit  • So to avoid confusion we re-wrote use stories to say stored in memory  
 
Received pushback from devs about accommodating for heic file types as doc uploader currently doesn’thave it so to add it would be some effort. Devs were worried this would be blocker.  • Got tony (dev who worked on something like this on WOR) to speak to it • Tony clarified there is an existing library to do that and function is pretty simple, he pasted the linkand function in chat for devs to be at ease upload-receipt.component.ts - Repos (azure.com) • Re-emphasized the business need for it (how many providers use an iphone to click photos andupload forms) Qa has a web application from common engineering (simulator) to test heic file types for use case ofwhen providers take photos of pdfs and upload them  Kobiton 
Devs question – where do we get the colour and fonts from? Wsbc library or other methods? • There is probably embedded css and html source  • Need to confirm with UX team 
Devs preferred splitting stories up especially when there is heavy backend work • For example when a user submits a request, frontend UI is not too much  • But backend needs a lot of stuff to happen in the database and then storing information, theywanted to have this as a separate story and then estimate it  
Reducing the number of steps it takes for users to find relevant forms  

--- PAGE 14 ---
• Merged the following navigation pages while still making sure it serves the purpose ofstreamlining user experience and educational goals (know your contracta nd what you arerequesting) 
 
Finishing issues with designers  • Tooltip not positioned well • Repeating contact numbers inside tooltip and bottom of page making the tooltip very long 


--- PAGE 15 ---
• Padding issues between text and submit button 
 
Example of detailing required so that design is cleaner  • in our database there seems to be a provider and payee name AND provider and payee number.in some cases these may be different too. do we know which field we are exactly retrieving foreach of these fields here? • SY ProviderProfile-DB and sample JSONData. We need to look at the code and see which field isbeing used.  I think PayeeName is the one being used. Need to check. • {"payeeID": "00011", "payeeName": "GARY ALTON ORTHOPEDIC SOLUTIONS", "type": "MSP",  
•   "organizationNames" : [{"type": "Legal", "name": "GARY ALTON ORTHOPEDIC SOLUTIONS",}, 
•   {"type": "Trade", "name": "GARY ALTON ORTHOPEDIC SOLUTIONS",}],  
•   "addresses": [{ "addressLine1": "684-61178 18 IGI", "city": "SURREY  BC", "country": "CA","postalCode": "V3S5K7", "primaryIndicator": true, "addressType": "Mailing"}],  
•   "phoneNumbers": [{"areaCode": "778", "phoneNumber": "1476767", "primaryIndicator": true}]} •  
•
• Current PXT application uses "payeeName" from the JSON. •  the payee number is associated to the users login userID by the user themselves right? yes 


--- PAGE 16 ---
Working with other product managers/ product owners  • Requested mimi (po for cms) to be part of her discovery for case managers which is otherwisedone in isolation. Motivation is to not step on her toes but to make sure we get what we want outout of it as well and realign on product goals without compromising on quality. Both teams shouldbe on the same page to maximize outcomes and to make sure nothing is cut short for eitherproduct I.e. pxt and cms  • If I want to change the workflow that impacts other products as well, how do you manage frictionor pushback from internal stakeholders especially other POs? Do discovery, try and explain thewhy, drive value for each group. For example by moving the injured worker page up font, this hadalmost no benefit to designers, but for developers this meant they wouldn’t have to connect theinjured worker form to 6 different pages but instead just make one connect from injured workerpage to type of service page, for security team this meant earlier and upfront validation of theclaim number, for users this meant better user experience because previously they would need togo through almost half the flow and then enter claim information (if the claim info was wrong,their effort would basically be wasted). The idea is to create a new precedence for your productinside your company.  
Conflict with designers  • Andrew: doesn’t do version control of prototypes. For example two versions of the form had thesame version number, he published the wrong one with disabled button not allowing the users torequest the right thing. This resulted in invoicing issues in cents per user but compounded quite alot.  • Have to double check his work, set repetitive meetings, delayed work, translate requirements overand over. Slowly the project and team down. Had to create word docs/ miro screenshots of whatdesigns I wanted to communicate with devs and BEs • No support from my manager. • Did a live working session of 1.5 hours where I had him make changes and publish them to makesure they are done 
Project that you are proud of  - infoX. Project that had nothing to do with my actual job but I found value in it. I came across researchthat was done 2 years back in 2021 but it never got funded. I came across pain points in my project anddecided to re-pitch it. I took a hypothesis of using web forms instead of pdfs would be of immense valueto the provider network in BC. Started to socialize this idea with multiple groups of people likedevelopers, smes, solution architects and re-define the value proposition. Did additional research andvalidation to elevate initial pitch. Moved from angular web forms to apis and integrations with existingprovider emrs to integrating with open source emrs such as oscar. This would mean  • providers wont have to leave their general workflow to file insurance claims  • Providers would adopt a free open source emr software  • Ease of work for emr developers  Created a business plan to address anticipated pushback of what incentive do emr developers have towork with worksafe bc. The plan was to create demand through providers. Oscar was built by mcmasteruniversity and approx 500 providers in the province were already using mcmaster emr software. Wewould build a proof of concept with them and build social acceptance and eventually have providersinfluence their emrs to work with wsbc.  Proud of it because even though we didn’t win at innofest we socialized the idea enough that it gotvisibility and engagement (votes) for the project to re-pick up. Somebody from the innovation councilreached out and decided to make a formal pitch to the council with our research and we won $80K tobuild a proof of concept for a project that would define the nest strategic direction for wsbc. 
 
Incident handling 3 levels of incident handling -  Level 1 – client care/ customer support  Level 2 – tech support  Level 3 – POs and devs   

--- PAGE 17 ---
But howard introduced a level 2.5 which is basically just the PO. We don’t want to escalate to devsunless absolutely sure it is a problem they need to solve. This would mean pulling incidents into sprintsand dev time is expensive.   For example -  the following incident didn’t require any dev support. It was an error on the user's partwhen they requested the wrong date while re-filling the web form at the time of making the request.We checked Unified Navigation App | ServiceNow (service-now.com)  And looked at cms production to see the actual submission that was made. Looked at the xmlsubmission to cms and a copy of the submitted pdf and web form. While the pdf had the right date, theuser entered the wrong date on the additional details bit of the webform. Howard followed up with theclient. But this request was approved by case manager, so along with following up with the client, followed upwith the case manager too to make sure they were aware and if they approved the actual requested enddate.   
 
 


--- PAGE 18 ---
 
Integration team was swamped so we had to meet with devs and solutions architect to break down theint story so that the int team can take smaller stories into iterations broke the following story down into2 -  Higher priority one story is points 1 and 2  Followed by 4 and then 3    
 
 
Problem for physio extensions - Harm spoke with Gabi this morning, she said that this year Physio is ourbiggest health care spend ($80 million out of the total $500 million) and physio extensions are a bigpiece of this. So, I think that we should shut the door on automation for now - we do need casemanagers to review each one.  Why this is a problem – case managers arent reviewing requests coming in. Most are just skimmingthrough it and approving requests. Wsbc is having to pay a lot in insurance because of that. 16% ofannual spending   
Stats: 
• The final status for a physio extension requests are: ○ completed – a decision has been made ○ duplicate – claim owner determines it is a duplicate ○ Revised Request Required – claim owner determines it is missing information andis meant to inform the provider to resubmit with the required info. 
No. Final Status Count 
1 Completed 133,390 
2 Duplicate 5,017 
3 Revised Request Required 973 
  Total 139,380 
  
• For cases where a decision is made (ie ‘completed’ status), there are actually 2 itemsto make a decision on …first one is physio extension and the second one is hydro(which may or may not exist depending on whether it can be requested).   Therefore,it is possible to have a decision for 1 item or 2 items.  The decision can be ○ Approve ○ Deny ○ Not requested – this was the workaround whereby ‘My Provider Services’ appearto request both physio and hydro even though hydro was not actually requested

--- PAGE 19 ---
(ie technical glitch in using MPS), this was a way for the Claim owner to say itemwas not actually requested. 
Completed'Requests     
No. Item 1 -decision Item 2 -decision Result Count 
1 approve approve approve everything 109,693 
2 approve     
3 deny deny deny everything 9,123 
4 deny     
5 approve deny mixed approval (12023 + 36) 12059 
6 deny approve   
7 approve not requested approve with not requested (2435+ 4) 2439 
8 not requested approve   
9 deny not requested deny wih not requested (38 + 1) 39 
10 not requested deny   
11 not requested not requested not requested for everything 37 
12 not requested     
      Total 133,390 
  
What does all this mean …in terms of automation potential? 
• Looks like 109,693/139,380 = 79% always approve…so is it worth automating thisapproval within guardrails (ie is there a way to queue out cases where we canpotentially deny today?) • Automation potential may be higher if system can detect duplicates well and if MPSusage is discontinued for this use case/glitch fixed. 
  
  
@Poon, Howard, as an aside, happen to notice from the stats in an operational perspective,some claims owners are approving hydro only which was not the intent…but at least thenumbers are very very small 
• #6 – denied physio but approved hydro = 36 • #8 – approve hydro only = 4  
 
Dev scenarios   • Scenario – dev decides a story is not reday to work on in the middle of the sprint (william's tickethttps://dev.azure.com/wcbbc/IT-App-Delivery/_workitems/edit/778905 ) BE removed it from sprint but we had a story that is a stretch with 8 points so that will take up anyfree capacity/ therefore didn’t replace william's ticket with any other story 

--- PAGE 20 ---
Planning around carebear's freed up capacity. There was a concern that we wouldn’t be able shipeverything we had planned for by q2. To make that possible started looking for pods with additionalcapacity  -  Zak as BE for carebears let me and harm know that there is freed up capacity from devs of carebears andadditional funding of upto $100K In 2024 For year of 2024 for provider expansion $300K was approved. Of which pioneers devs will use 190K uptill the end of the year. Cms team is anticipated to use 60-80K. This is good because now simultaneously two pods can work on different parts of the project withoutconflict. As po I has prioritize what gets built out next. But this woiuld depend on how much capacity hasbeen freed up and which devs have capacity.   Planning and build/ budget scenarios • Pxt is going to shift hands from pioneers to carebears in the new year. Zak reached out tounderstand scope for carebears and at what point transfer was happening. In order to shipeverything we had in mind before running out of budget, zak suggested that carebears start worknow as he thinks devs on carebears has capacity. Depending on how much capacity they have wecan structure stories for the following situations  ○ If tony has capacity he can do the doc uploader for cvpt extensions ○ If it is other devs on carebears with capacity, they cans tart with other front end forms ○ If overall there is capacity can work on above tasks simultaneously  Risk with this – 2 sets of devs from different pods will work on the same code base . They could writeover each other and it could be more expensive.  finding ways to implement trunk based development. I and zak started writing out other user stories and then took them to devs of both pods.  
In my xp recently, it has worked better for us to come to the table with Stories written and explained fromthe Product perspective. Then they can fill in the gaps with the tech perspective. It saves most of their time. 
  
Sometimes devs are better are story writing and want to be involved from an early conceptual level - but Ihaven't seen that the case here. It just makes them confused and they don't enjoy sitting in the meetingwatching the Story being written and the PM/PO/BE talking and figuring things out. 
  
Most challenging part of provider expansion project  instead of updating existing data tables within CMS that captures all the new info from our new forms,we believe creating a new data table on our end would be more beneficial so that we only retrieve therequest decision and rationale from CMS   • Question for you - To do the above, how will mapping our datable and CMS occur? Will it be claimnumber, provider ID, cms reference number or a combination of one or more of these values?   Michael  
Currently, the request is submitted through DocUploader to CMS, but the request information is notsaved in the online side. For this reason, we have a sensor that reads CMS HUB DB and surface up therequest information (submitted request and approval information). This information flow won't bechanging. 
  

--- PAGE 21 ---
With new request types, current online DB tables will be used mainly to store the approval informationfrom CMS. New table will be created to capture the request information for different request types(same information will be submitted to CMS as well). Based on my understanding, there could bemultiple requests with claim# & provider ID combination, so we need a link between what we havecollected online and what CMS has approved.  
  
Thought about few options. Regardless of the type, my assumption is all requests are going to be PDFsubmission to CMS. This means CMS Reference# will be returned and we can link RequestSubmission(online side) and ProviderRequest/RequestItem (CMS side). Or we can useINCOMING_REFERENCE_NUM, but it requires additional changes in CMS.  
  
While CMS change hasn't been explored yet, I am not sure if we can address my question at this point.Maybe we can meet and discuss. 
 Mimi can you send me a copy of what CMS sends to the portal (ie XML you get)...just want to take a look atwhat we currently supply.  The reason I ask is that we do have a request ID whenever a request iscreated in CMS.  It doesn't show on any screens but it is stored in the database and it is a uniqueidentifier for the request....we could contemplate sending you this ID (we probably already send it toyou in the existing  xml interface...that's why I wanted to take a look)  Michael  
CMS Listener calls ICCDataSweeper to submit a request. Currently, endpoint returns below XMLincluding CMSRef#. 
  
XML <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?> <Envelope xmlns="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/">       <Body>         <SubmitDocumentResponse xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="http://worksafebc.com/ICCDataSweeperMessages">           <ReturnCode>1</ReturnCode>           <ReturnDescription>ReturnDescription1</ReturnDescription>           <ReferenceNumber>ReferenceNumber1</ReferenceNumber>         </SubmitDocumentResponse>       </Body> </Envelope>   There is no API interface for the decision data. Sensor is retrieving PXT from CMSHUB and updatedirectly to the Online DB. Current online DB structure is Information Viewpoint - Overview. Yes, requestID is unique and if we can get the request ID upon submission, it would work for us.  Either we can create a new endpoint in ICCDataSweeper for ProviderRequestSubmission or online sidecan pass unique identifier which can be stored in the Request table to be surface up later, so we canlink.  Mimi 
maybe...I'm just thinking that for all 7 use case, the pattern should be consistent going forward (I'm not surewhy physio extension use case should be different than the others)....but it's more of an architecturalstrategy between you and Chitanya when we get there.... 
  
I should clarify...either the old way or new way...just saying it shoud probably be consistent 
  Michael  Yes. Main reason is we used DocUploader to submit PhysioExtension, which doesn't store what was capturedin the Online side. The PXT application simply retrieve what was submitted and decided, so DB tablestructure is very similar to CMS table structure. However, more types, we can't use this pattern becausedifferent request type has different data model, that's why different approach is required. Moving forward,we should do it with a new way as it is more flexible. What we can surface up from CMS would be onlydecision data, no need to surface up what was submitted.  Mimi 
Thanks for the background.  
Having similar dilemma on the CMS side as well....how to structure requests in the database to be moreflexible and consistent....will get there once I get an better understanding of the problem space and ready to

--- PAGE 22 ---
start thinking on design.    Michael  On Friday, I discussed the high level approach with Chitanya. Online side passes an unique identifier when therequest is submitted. The unique number will be stored in the request table in CMS, so it can be surfaced upand linked. I just wanted to post here, so we can be on the same page.  Mimi let's reconvene during design phase.  If portal is already in design stage, then let's have a group meeting (plsinvite Chitanya & Rajat from the CMS side).  Reason I say this is that these request don't only come from theportal....the physio extension come from fax/mail so needs to understand wholistically how all these requestswill be handle in the future.  Best to discuss in group setting. 
Negotiating with other POs 1. With howard (for tony and madhu as smes for pioneers) 2. With farhad – security vulnerabilities came up that would impact story points that were allotted for pioneers devs for PRQ. Either his project would need to be de-prioritized mine  3. With mimi to reduce scope of discovery on her end – carebears had already done the discovery that spanned months and we had defined the scope for mimi's team for discowhich was limited to the cms wizard. She wanted to undertake discovery of her own going over how the product has evolved. A few concerns with this approach  a. There was no cap on her end about when she would finish discovery ("I don’t know what I don’t know"). This was risky as we had only $300 worth of budget left for theforeseeable future for this product. And carebears was sitting to start work. Until discovery was done, it was hard to know for sure what cms would be ready for so thacarebear devs can build that out on the front end. Cms team wasn’t ready to commit to an end date. b. By increasing the scope of the discovery on their end, we would digress as we would start to get feedback on provider facing/ forms that historically didn’t sit too well wCOs but it was imperative from a provider perspective  i. For example COs didn’t find the need to have forms built out for interruptions. They just wanted providers to call instead. But this had already been validated byproviders and they saw it as important so that there was written record for it   Mimi's argument was – depending on her discovery there could be an instance where COs would like to share more information with providers than has been prototyped. Thiss coresult in changes in the UX/UI of the product   What we wanted -  1. Our PO be included in their discovery to guardrail it  2. Reduced time and scope of discovery so that we can get to dev soon  3. We set the agenda for their discovery   How we did it  • We placed bets/ took risks on features we had strong inclination that would be built out by cms too (for example view details. How this would look like would only be slighltydifferent) • Got cms team in touch with business sponsors re-emphasizing the need for this product and that we wont have any money left if we lose it this time. This project had to beaccomplished in 2023  • Harm's way to negotiate - In this scenario, I have the luxury of being senior and can negotiate with Taric first - he understands the timeline and cost constraints, but I need tounderstand if he is letting her do this approach to keep her happy.   As peer to peer, it’s a bit more challenging because we are asking for support - even though it is inefficient support. So, if it were just you and Mimi, you’d have to show her tsteps that were taken to validate with case managers and providers and show how we’ve already narrowed and prioritized the scope.  What should have happened -  As we knew there were CMS dependencies, mimi should have been part of the initial discovery sessions. If not that, there shouldve been a KT session of the initial discovery to her 
Getting buy-in for usability/ better UX features – non functional features In my opinion there is not a single direct answer. Have to understand hierarchies and motivationsbehind this/ thought processes and give-and-take. Be ready to offer first and then ask. Understandincentives  1. Depends on whose buy in you need. • Somebody who needs to put in money/ directors/ sponsors/ cross-team leaders -  

--- PAGE 23 ---
• Other POs -  • Engineering leaders/ Devs -  • Customers - 2. Where has the feature request come from – if it is someone higher up on the ladder or lower 3. Demos 4. Evidence from other products/ cross domains. Industries/ products with similar goals/ outcomes 5. Heatmaps 6. Internal sponsors/ ambassadors for the feature/ product/ idea for example – error validationartifact, font size for disclaimers  
Mimi trying to squeeze in carebears budget to complete cms discovery  • Took 1.5 to complete discovery – shouldn’t have taken that long  

================================================================================
FILE: updated behavioral experiences.pdf
PAGES: 120
================================================================================
--- PAGE 1 ---
Behavioral experiences
Conflicts
   Physio extension app
Pushback from solutions architect and senior PMs for claims regarding
launching an extension feature as a majority of cases get approved anyway –
so they are wondering why cant we just auto approve the extension upto a
certain value? Problem with was it defeats the business purpose of the
extension app as we needed case managers to be more involved in accepting
or declining extensions because otherwise physios want to keep treating
injured workers and wsbc is paying a lot in insurance.
   Injured worker portal
Scope of MVP1 wasnʼt well defined/ technicality wasnʼt clear. For example the
user story was – workers can submit one single-item receipt for
reimbursement.
Confusion for devs and scrum master - What does this mean though? Just upload
to front end? Upload to backend into the CMS? Or mid-way upload to browser and
store it there?
   Injured worker portal
New prototype was made available before devs were able to complete
currents print goal devs prefer making changes now before committing
changes to current sprint goal. Scrum master's objection is it could expand our
scope and we get locked into it. Look to PO to make sure scope is not
expanded.
   Prioritizing internal processes over user experience
Flow A. for each category of expense, users are expected to start up a new form
and choose a category because internally that's how data flows. It would be
manual work for case managers internally
Behavioral experiences
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
   Hiring a BE or not for pod
Who does the BE benefit? Po or dev? Some concerns – he said/ she said, who will
the dev team go to for questions? Po or dev?
   Overwhelming requests from business stakeholders at sprint review
Tian and sannie derailing scope by adding new feature requests (add ai, add links
to pages, etc.) to avoid burnout for CMs and doc uploader
   Telus health disagreement with harm about vision of portal vision
Swapping from bceid to forgerock because prov govt is taking bceid down is a
good time to revisit contract and negotiate terms -
Just swapping alone telus is charging half a million dollars. We are paying $50K
per month for service desk and portal maintenance. This portal was initially built
for wsbc and we donʼt own an intellectual property. We donʼt have access to the
portal back end.
We cant buy the portal because we donʼt have the skillset that knows how to
operate the portal. If we are using forgerock now is a good time to consider
absorbing the portal or getting part access to our product
What could be causing bugs post production  
   Importance of failing tests for every new development
   When do I need dev support? Is this something I can solve? Is it a config
issue?
Behavioral experiences
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Ask howard - Mps date of service/ fee codes issue
   Prioritization scenario based question
MPS – pxt application   Introducing a new service (ability to request extensions
digitally vs making a fax or phone call) vs improving user experience
(implementing a pdf reader or AI data extraction to avoid users entering redundant
information)
   Tech debt is not always bad.
Introducing tech debt for bceid was being considered if we wanted total
absorption of bceid/ telus health by mps. Introducing tech debt now would be
beneficial long term. This was happening at the time when working group
was condering different options to implement bceid retirement – like for like
replacement of bceid with forgerock, wsbc taking on cpr and onboarding/
registration, eliminating telus entirely by housing artifacts, user resources etc.
13. Challenging experience
Working on products that you have no access to. As a new po at wsbc protocol is
to work with and get acquainted with the product but with telus health there was
no access as it was built by them for wsbc. Used video, spoke to stakeholders,
created ….
   Using simpler design and workflows as angular was slowing things down.
A lot was being spent for very little work done. All projects were running behind
schedule. Spent $600k for 4 screens for wor (a lot of it was spent on upgrading
angular versions for security purposes).  To avoid that, POs and PMs along with
designers to build designs that are simple. Or use a hybrid approach between
waterfall and agile where story points for every user story are estimated before
hand. To be more pro-active, use developers and designers at the time of
discovery for pxt forms portion (build new web forms or use doc uploader). All this
while an enterprise level conversation is going on about moving away from
angular. We need something where there one block of code that connects to
different databases vs devs coding every element out (angular)
   Had to immediately cut the scope down at the time a dev pod was made
available in 2 weeks (at least one month earlier much earlier than anticipated)
Behavioral experiences
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Issues with that – back end work, architectural designs weren't ready, telus/
vendor dependencies – still in conversation with telus for integrations and work
required on their end
Considerations – what front end work could start for development that wasnʼt
dependent on back end decisions, how could scope be narrowed without
compromising on user experience/ benefit and business value, scope couldnʼt be
too small so that the pod would only need 2 weeks to complete and then they had
no work
    Impact statement] Potential impact on bceid project
To reduces costs paid to telus by $145K, made cosmetic changes to
authentication call and no structural changes. To do this we designed the solution
that had minimal impact or changes for vendor in terms of integrations that
needed to build (telus). We emulated the bceid call and passed on the same
tokens as before.
   What has been challenging as PO/PM?
Context switching, back to back meetings – but time with directors is hard to get
so how do you make sure  youre not wasting time and still drive conversations well
   Working with an experienced/ senior team helps anticipate problems and
mitigate them. See example below
   Would each of the button below one front end project or multiple ones? Would
each button need a separate app? For some team earlier they assumed they
could have 1 solution but they failed security and that delayed the project by 1
year (ask william dev on pioneers this)
Behavioral experiences
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Michael was informed pretty late that he was going to be a full-time architect
on the provider expansion project, which means he didnʼt get the chance to
create the entire architect for the proposed solution. So we wouldnʼt be able to
go to sys test by end of oct which would impact our timelines and target
launch date.
Right now security team is swamped, so everything is uncommitted. What
helped me here is tony (experienced dev well versed with doc uploader and
environments). He suggested to have dev env w/o threat model ready.
Prioritization example -
Form 6 was implementing a body map for injured workers to pick and choose area
of injury. Stakeholders thought this could be useful for providers too for the
provider extension app  60 days request). But this would not only increase the
scope to translate that image as info for case managers but also it didnʼt make
sense for providers as injured workers may or may not know what the area of
injury is (what it is called in medical terms). But providers should know it and it is
not adding any value for them. Something as simple as text box should suffice for
phase 1
Example of where you used data to make product decisions
we were debating launch of two features: call back request and ping feature.
Goal of call back was to streamline communication and service for physios.
Goal of ping was if a request in stuck in pending for more than 1 week,
providers can ping a cm for more info as to why it is stuck. We used data to
de-prioritize the ping feature as most request on average were resolved within
3 days from the date of submission. So most requests we actually not stuck in
pending for too long for the ping feature to be valuable. Decided to experiment
with the call back feature instead so that case managers have the discretion to
call back based on the reason providers have requested. But if providers have
questions about payments etc. They should be re-routed to call center as this
doesnʼt need CO input. This tool would implement screening questions and
branching to avoid tasks that have nothing to do with CMs to reach them.
this shows how many PT extension requests are per day of aging.  I've grouped
the requests by the year they were submitted and it's actually sort of
encouraging.  The proportion of requests are that resolved within 3 days of
Behavioral experiences
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
submission has increased.  Caveat: still trying to verify whether any of this
includes faxes requests... my feeling is it doesn't but it's hard to tell. The numbers
you see in this graph are: the percentage of requests resolved in Y number of
days that year and the absolute count of requests beside it
This data also shows how 27% of requests get resolved on the same day. This is
concerning as we arent sure if CMs arent looking at details before approving these
requests. This is a problem because we want CMs more involved/
   Design process / rationale
We wanted minimum screens to be built out leveraging existing ux/ui. Initially
design/ flow was built out differently where providers needed to enter injured
worker info after choosing request type for each service they requested (as
follows)
Behavioral experiences
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
Behavioral experiences
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
So screen 2 would need to be built out/ linked to 6 times
Instead we moved screens around for the provider to first enter injured worker
information no matter what the request is. This was we build it out only once,
better user experience, providers can add multiple requests for one single claim
without having the need to keep entering info for same worker and the injured
worker information can be validated before a provider goes through all the steps
while requesting a service (as follows)
Behavioral experiences
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
   Increased scope of project when it aligned better with business objectives
We increased the scope of the provider expansion project by introducing
screening questions and the provider invoice api (that included the nature of the
contract providers have with wsbc) for the following reasons:
The screening questions would educate providers on which service/ program
to choose which would reduce the possibility of errors and redoing their
request later on
The above would help wsbc qa department
The api would ensure only the services a provider has signed up for would
show as valid options to choose from
This scope change would only add to front end development and nothing
backend would change (cms or database related). This is treated as an
onboarding tool for new providers
The api already exists and we only need to expose it to the tool
Behavioral experiences
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Behavioral experiences
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Behavioral experiences
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
Questions to ask at PM interviews
How does funding for projects work at your company? Through ideas or
financials such as ebitda, npv through sensitivity analysis?
How frequently does a PM need to acquire funds
Working with devs
At tsbc preference was for PRDs
Behavioral experiences
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
But at wsbc, devs preferred high fidelity prototypes as there are challenges
with prd version control, stagnant documents. Version control is easier with
prototypes, can socialize the idea better, changes are dynamic.
Examples of smaller use cases that were deprioritized-
   Ping feature
   Pdf conversion/ reader to auto-populate web form
   Requests without a claim number. Should be providers be allowed to proceed
with making a request without a valid claim number
   
Impact I made -
   Improved research questions and surveys. Provider Segmentation - Miro
Though discovery we identified that the pxt app is not being used by
physiotherapists but their office admin. But surveys were filled out
by physiotherapsists. So there was a bias in survey results as when a score is
poor and they are dissatisfied with wsbc, we arent sure if they are dissatisfied by
the contract terms (poor rates) or dissatisfied with the tool itself. We donʼt
currently ask on the surveys for roles that are filling out the surveys. We donʼt
know who actually fills the survey out. When they say response rates are poor, we
donʼt know responsiveness on what is poor.
   In future discovery through focus groups, surveys, - important to note about
physiotherapists information sharing preferences. This would help to design
better web forms that can proactively help capture effective information for
case managers
For example
Physios donʼt want to fill out functional abilities on the web form. They want to
be paid more for that
Clinics arent comfortable in sharing other info like what is the reason for delay
in treatment. For this, patients need to give consent. They would
Behavioral experiences
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
rather wsbc reaches out to patients directly.
We donʼt have enough research on this
   What is the level of self serve that providers would enjoy
with forgerock implementation? Do they want to be able to grant and revoke
access by themselves?
This would help make decisions on vendor management and get rid of them if
required as providers will have more control on their experiences
and wsbc wouldnʼt have to pay telus for poor service. We already have evidence
that telus is a poor vendor but we donʼt know client impact.  questions like how
often are your calls redirected from telus to wsbc. How often are your questions
not answered by telus. Telus' helpdesk usually answers all provider questions, but
we donʼt follow up with surveys or feedback on service performance.
   Improved data tracking and measuring performance metrics Provider
expansion measures.docx
How do you respond to team B needs your devs?
think of how the healthcare pod was looking at
embedding cms devs into carebears
How do you as PO respond to tasks that show up on your backlog that originate as
part of the product backlog? For example security related tasks or software being
deprecated? How do you use PO discretion here?
Negotiating with designers to build new design components.
As po I wanted something more cleaner, like linkedin requests where the character
counter in inside the box on the bottom right hand corner as 90/100 and keeps
reducing from there. But this would need david to create a new design component
as a template doesnʼt exist already. Decided to deprioritize this as was not critical
to the project, no other projects probably see value in this right now and my
project didnʼt have a lot of open text fields.
But if there are other bigger projects that were form heavy that would benefit from
it, it is important to have that.
Building design artifacts with david – for multiple reasons
Easier for product to communicate with devs and BE for user stories
Behavioral experiences
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
More effective for devs as visual cues into functionality
Artifacts for design so when we do scale the product out to other provider
types, we can reuse most of this
ux-demo.online.dv.worksafebc.com/UXGUIDES/guide-errorhandling.html
Behavioral experiences
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
[impact statement] BCeID
Shipped an enterprise authentication tool using SAML authentication enabling
fast authorization checks at enormous scale while maintaining a flexible model
that can be adapted to even the most complex use cases. Built a role-based
access control with other features such as SSO, MFA, user management and
self-serve (forgerock implementation)
Is there a product that you can think of, if you could freeze time, and work on it
with your team more, what would you change about it? In the context of the same
product goal/ business goal
Design
Behavioral experiences
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
Features/ function
Implementation
Different orgs have different processes and workflows to do product
Tsbc didnʼt have a r&d/ experience team
Wsbc had a very dedicated team. It was easier for me as a PM to shape
experiences and build to my strengths, show my impact by improving surveys and
defining goals of product/ teams
Can you think of an example of when you have interacted with a bunch of PMs
and you realize a system/ product is too complex but everyone made all the right
local decisions and yet together they are too complex and so you've had to revisit
the system.  
Can you think of a time when you thought you could ship a product really fast but
then realized you couldnʼt and had to pivot?
Helped PMs develop pods by taking an active part in recruitment
Mistake I made at tsbc was, candidates didnʼt have long term plan for product
or to be in it
Structured questions to test real day to day product experiences
[impact statement] How else did you improve research at WSBC?
In second round of discovery removed a control for that version of prototype to
see if users missed it, didnʼt care for it, wanted demand for that feature
Think of a time when you took an idea and socialized it
Innofest sep 2024 –
Death to pdfs – project InfoX
Give a brief description for your idea 
We want to use data-sharing APIs and standards to digitally exchange information
with health care providers.  This would require building robust internal systems
Behavioral experiences
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
that allow for rapid API design, development, testing and publishing with the goal
of seamless API integrations with EMR vendors – amongst other possible
solutions.
What is your vision for your idea
Whether we create our own standards and APIs, or adopt industry ones (for ex:
Jane), we envision a data-sharing ecosystem that:
Frees up capacity for WorkSafeBC developers by eliminating redundant,
manual and complex internal backend system integrations while also reducing
dependencies for API access
Makes it easier for EMR vendor developers to integrate with our APIs
Inspires the confidence of health care providers by being reliable, secure, and
tightly integrated with their existing processes,
Improves the decision-making capabilities of WorkSafeBC by creating a rich
and dynamic data landscape,
Supports the recovery and RTW of injured workers by ensuring that
information about their care and claim is current, accurate, and coordinate
between WorkSafeBC and health care providers.
What problem will your idea solve? Which stakeholders are affected?
For InnoFest, our team will focus on where our main interests and expertise lie -
health care providers. However, benefits of this idea would expand beyond that.
Our goal is to test this idea with PDF forms pertaining to healthcare providers
(physiotherapy) and if successful, eventually expand to other major stakeholder
groups including employers and injured workers.
Every year, more than 20,000health care providers rely on over 150 forms to send
WorkSafeBC information about the injured workers they treat.  Providers download
these forms from our website in PDF format.  Once completed, providers submit
over 600,000 of them per year to WorkSafeBC by website upload, fax, and even
postal mail.  This is despite the challenges that WorkSafeBC and providers have
with forms completed and submitted in this manner.
PDF-based forms create a constellation of problems that include -
Behavioral experiences
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
Highly complex to integrate PDF forms and their contents with databases and
other applications,
Data that is “locked-in” on the PDF, inaccessible to data analytics,
Lack of version control, resulting in out-of-date forms circulating and
incomplete forms being submitted,
Limited interactive and dynamic features such as real-time data and form type
validation, auto-completion, and branching logic,
High sustainment costs of creating, updating, and storing PDF forms.
What are the biggest benefits of your idea?
Our idea will unlock the full value of the data and information that are currently
For WorkSafeBC -
Robust internal systems and data exchange standards making API integrations
easier for external partners such as EMR vendors
Cleaner, standardized data - Data collect by API has passed validations,
saving data cleanup and data prep tasks
Enhanced data analytics - Incoming data is well-structured and immediately
ready for analysis, enabling faster and better decision-making
For health care providers -
Improved confidence - APIs help providers to submit and receive complete,
correct, and current information to and from WorkSafeBC, reducing phone
calls and assuring payments,
More efficient business processes - By integrating data-exchange APIs or
standards into their clinic software, providers can use their usual in-clinic
workflows when seeing and reporting on WorkSafeBC patients.
For workers -
Can focus on recovery and RTW - workers will no longer need to fill in nor
suffer missing information between their provider and WorkSafeBC,
Receive better care - workersʼ health care providers are empowered with more
and current information about their claim and clinical status.
Behavioral experiences
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
Which categories apply to your idea?
Eliminate pain points 
Free up capacity with purpose
Enhance knowledge sharing
Other
Who from your team will participate 
Howard, Linda, David, Taric?
Additional comments
WorkSafeBC is far behind the times making it difficult for providers to work with
us, old-school PDFs being one of the many problems. While InfoXʼs vision is to
create a new data exchange standard for healthcare providers first, this will prove
as a good first step to address a corporate problem that WorkSafeBC is a burden
to work with. We want to be a preferred choice in the future.
How did  you make sure you're mitigating risks of delay in project and running out
of funding before you've built at least major/ most useful components of the
project.
we looked to structure the build so that parts of the product are built only
when resources are available for sure (example cms)
But cms discovery had started earlier already as not the entire pod capacity
was required
Met with cms POs and PMs to anticipate roadblocks and mitigation strategies
(for example – no paper forms were involved for cvpts or 60 days. This made
the build easier from cms side, no radicle changes were required for service
plan changes). Also got a sense of cms discovery and build timelines.
Understood cms models would need to be changed to we became proactive
by using fake data in parallel to cms discovery
Built vertical slices
Met with devs frequently to understand implications of prototype and what
parts would be most complicated or take long to build. Given that understood
Behavioral experiences
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
any that needed uploaders would be hard to build, so tried to find ways we
could reuse code from other projects such as WOR. Got devs from both
projects to conduct KTs
Re-did slices so that dev can be completed in time, condensed forms so that
there is no additional build and less dependency on cms
Impact you've had as a product person on the culture of your team
For innofest got most people from healthcare pod to put in ideas that were not
only for org benefit but also would benefit their projects and they would have
some outcome to take with them if it went forward.
So whichever idea would win would take the healthcare pod forward and get
visibility – building ground up support for these projects and get early
feedback before we even win any funding. So that when we do get funding we
can hit the ground running
How do you take an idea and start socializing it.
Meeting with new devs on the pod and wsbc (joanna zhou), giving product
demos and explaining what we're doing, why we're doing it
Ideas submitted:
Zak  BE  - intelligent project planning Idea view | Planbox
Khush, howard, linda  PO and SMEs) - InfoX and data sharing
systems Idea view | Planbox
Madhu (dev) - local angular testing Idea view | Planbox
Negotiating with designers and experience team to reduce overwhelming
amounts of text and cleaner designs, display options. Got pushback about
other products in the company are using this way of doing it and this is pretty
"standard" - idea is to be experimental and have your product be the new
precedence in the company
Most problems donʼt require formal product discovery
Think of examples of this and how you failed by wasting resources
Behavioral experiences
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
How do you make sure most value is built out before you run out of money
Importance of slicing. Went through multiple rounds of this with devs and
business and architects
Vertical slicing vs horizontal
Usability improvement examples
Most users already know claim numbers. It is too much text to have at the very
top. Put in a tooltip next to claim number instead
Sub text below wasn't adding a lot of value. Page looked chunky. Removed sub-
text
Behavioral experiences
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
When they say yes they have more info to share, the next field shouldnʼt be
optional – otherwise users can just select no instead
Behavioral experiences
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
During user stories planning and estimation, what happens if your devs arent on
the same page about the effort required for a specific story? For example
Asked whoever voted 2 why do they estimate so little?
Get devs to talk and understand nuances, find a middle ground
For features that donʼt need to change, you still need an acceptance criteria for
devs to be on the same page. For example for track requests, although there are
no enhancements happening in slice 1, it is important that feature still works as it
currently and it should not break as it will be made available for providers to use in
the first release. This is important because we need dev capacity and time to test/
make sure track requests still works in QA. Users will be able to track requests like
they currently do 
Being proactive about future roadblocks -
Pxt was going to be transferred from pioneers to carebears after the first slice. To
reduce friction
We got madhu and tony from carebears to shadow
Did some KT sessions
Behavioral experiences
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
Example of user stories and mentioning what should be allowed but also what
should not be allowed
While doc uploader takes file types such as docx, pdf, jpeg etc. Our
application would not accept any document formats
Need to mention that in user story
Example of how user stories were becoming confusing for devs
by using the word upload, devs were confused that an api would be involved
but the upload was only storing in memory/ session data/ nothing was being
transferred to backend till they hoit submit
So to avoid confusion we re-wrote use stories to say stored in memory
Behavioral experiences
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
Received pushback from devs about accommodating for heic file types as doc
uploader currently doesnʼt have it so to add it would be some effort. Devs were
worried this would be blocker.
Got tony (dev who worked on something like this on WOR) to speak to it
Tony clarified there is an existing library to do that and function is pretty
simple, he pasted the link and function in chat for devs to be at ease upload-
receipt.component.ts - Repos (azure.com)
Re-emphasized the business need for it (how many providers use an iphone to
click photos and upload forms)
Qa has a web application from common engineering (simulator) to test heic file
types for use case of when providers take photos of pdfs and upload
them  Kobiton
Devs question – where do we get the colour and fonts from? Wsbc library or other
methods?
There is probably embedded css and html source
Need to confirm with UX team
Behavioral experiences
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
Devs preferred splitting stories up especially when there is heavy backend work
For example when a user submits a request, frontend UI is not too much
But backend needs a lot of stuff to happen in the database and then storing
information, they wanted to have this as a separate story and then estimate it
Reducing the number of steps it takes for users to find relevant forms
Merged the following navigation pages while still making sure it serves the
purpose of streamlining user experience and educational goals (know
your contracta nd what you are requesting)
Behavioral experiences
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
Finishing issues with designers
Tooltip not positioned well
Repeating contact numbers inside tooltip and bottom of page making the
tooltip very long
Behavioral experiences
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
Padding issues between text and submit button
Example of detailing required so that design is cleaner
in our database there seems to be a provider and payee name AND provider
and payee number. in some cases these may be different too. do we know
which field we are exactly retrieving for each of these fields here?
Behavioral experiences
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
SY ProviderProfile-DB and sample JSONData. We need to look at the code and
see which field is being used. I think PayeeName is the one being used. Need
to check.
{"payeeID": "00011", "payeeName": "GARY ALTON ORTHOPEDIC
SOLUTIONS", "type": "MSP",
"organizationNames" : [{"type": "Legal", "name": "GARY ALTON ORTHOPEDIC
SOLUTIONS",},
{"type": "Trade", "name": "GARY ALTON ORTHOPEDIC SOLUTIONS",}],
"addresses": [{ "addressLine1": "684 61178 18 IGI", "city": "SURREY BC",
"country": "CA", "postalCode": "V3S5K7", "primaryIndicator": true,
"addressType": "Mailing"}],
"phoneNumbers": [{"areaCode": "778", "phoneNumber": "1476767",
"primaryIndicator": true}]}
Current PXT application uses "payeeName" from the JSON.
the payee number is associated to the users login userID by the user
themselves right? yes
Behavioral experiences
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
Working with other product managers/ product owners
Requested mimi (po for cms) to be part of her discovery for case managers
which is otherwise done in isolation. Motivation is to not step on her toes but
to make sure we get what we want out out of it as well and realign on product
goals without compromising on quality. Both teams should be on the same
page to maximize outcomes and to make sure nothing is cut short for either
product I.e. pxt and cms
If I want to change the workflow that impacts other products as well, how do
you manage friction or pushback from internal stakeholders especially other
POs? Do discovery, try and explain the why, drive value for each group. For
example by moving the injured worker page up font, this had almost no benefit
to designers, but for developers this meant they wouldnʼt have to connect the
injured worker form to 6 different pages but instead just make one connect
from injured worker page to type of service page, for security team this meant
earlier and upfront validation of the claim number, for users this meant better
user experience because previously they would need to go through almost
half the flow and then enter claim information (if the claim info was wrong,
their effort would basically be wasted). The idea is to create a new
precedence for your product inside your company.
Behavioral experiences
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
Conflict with designers
Andrew: doesnʼt do version control of prototypes. For example two versions of
the form had the same version number, he published the wrong one with
disabled button not allowing the users to request the right thing. This resulted
in invoicing issues in cents per user but compounded quite a lot.
Have to double check his work, set repetitive meetings, delayed work,
translate requirements over and over. Slowly the project and team down. Had
to create word docs/ miro screenshots of what designs I wanted to
communicate with devs and BEs
No support from my manager.
Did a live working session of 1.5 hours where I had him make changes and
publish them to make sure they are done
Project that you are proud of
infoX. Project that had nothing to do with my actual job but I found value in it. I
came across research that was done 2 years back in 2021 but it never got
funded. I came across pain points in my project and decided to re-pitch it. I
took a hypothesis of using web forms instead of pdfs would be of immense
value to the provider network in BC. Started to socialize this idea with multiple
groups of people like developers, smes, solution architects and re-define the
value proposition. Did additional research and validation to elevate initial pitch.
Moved from angular web forms to apis and integrations with existing
provider emrs to integrating with open source emrs such as oscar. This would
mean
providers wont have to leave their general workflow to file insurance claims
Providers would adopt a free open source emr software
Ease of work for emr developers
Created a business plan to address anticipated pushback of what incentive
do emr developers have to work with worksafe bc. The plan was to create demand
through providers. Oscar was built by mcmaster university and approx 500
providers in the province were already using mcmaster emr software. We would
Behavioral experiences
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
build a proof of concept with them and build social acceptance and eventually
have providers influence their emrs to work with wsbc.
Proud of it because even though we didnʼt win at innofest we socialized the idea
enough that it got visibility and engagement (votes) for the project to re-pick up.
Somebody from the innovation council reached out and decided to make a formal
pitch to the council with our research and we won $80K to build a proof of
concept for a project that would define the nest strategic direction for wsbc.
Incident handling
3 levels of incident handling -
Level 1 – client care/ customer support
Level 2 – tech support
Level 3   POs and devs
But howard introduced a level 2.5 which is basically just the PO. We donʼt want to
escalate to devs unless absolutely sure it is a problem they need to solve. This
would mean pulling incidents into sprints and dev time is expensive.
For example -  the following incident didnʼt require any dev support. It was an error
on the user's part when they requested the wrong date while re-filling the web
form at the time of making the request. We checked Unified Navigation App |
ServiceNow (service-now.com)
And looked at cms production to see the actual submission that was made.
Looked at the xml submission to cms and a copy of the submitted pdf and web
form. While the pdf had the right date, the user entered the wrong date on the
additional details bit of the webform. Howard followed up with the client.
But this request was approved by case manager, so along with following up with
the client, followed up with the case manager too to make sure they were aware
and if they approved the actual requested end date.
Behavioral experiences
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
Behavioral experiences
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
Integration team was swamped so we had to meet with devs and solutions
architect to break down the int story so that the int team can take smaller stories
into iterations broke the following story down into 2 -
Higher priority one story is points 1 and 2
Followed by 4 and then 3
Behavioral experiences
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
Problem for physio extensions - Harm spoke with Gabi this morning, she said that
this year Physio is our biggest health care spend  $80 million out of the total $500
million) and physio extensions are a big piece of this. So, I think that we should
shut the door on automation for now - we do need case managers to review each
one.
Why this is a problem – case managers arent reviewing requests coming in. Most
are just skimming through it and approving requests. Wsbc is having to pay a lot in
insurance because of that. 16% of annual spending
Stats:
The final status for a physio extension requests are:
completed – a decision has been made
duplicate – claim owner determines it is a duplicate
Revised Request Required – claim owner determines it is missing
information and is meant to inform the provider to resubmit with the
required info.
No. Final Status Count
1 Completed 133,390
2 Duplicate 5,017
3 Revised Request Required 973
Behavioral experiences
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
Total 139,380
For cases where a decision is made (ie ‘completedʼ status), there are actually 2
items to make a decision on …first one is physio extension and the second one
is hydro (which may or may not exist depending on whether it can be
requested). Therefore, it is possible to have a decision for 1 item or 2 items.
The decision can be
Approve
Deny
Not requested – this was the workaround whereby ‘My Provider Servicesʼ
appear to request both physio and hydro even though hydro was not
actually requested (ie technical glitch in using MPS , this was a way for the
Claim owner to say item was not actually requested.
Completed'
Requests
No. Item 1 -
decision
Item 2 -
decision Result Count
1 approve approve approve
everything 109,693
2 approve
3 deny deny deny everything 9,123
4 deny
5 approve deny mixed approval
 12023   36  12059
6 deny approve
7 approve not requested
approve with not
requested  2435
+ 4 
2439
8 not requested approve
9 deny not requested deny wih not
requested  38   1  39
10 not requested deny
Behavioral experiences
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
11 not requested not requested not requested for
everything 37
12 not requested
Total 133,390
What does all this mean …in terms of automation potential?
Looks like 109,693/139,380   79% always approve…so is it worth automating
this approval within guardrails (ie is there a way to queue out cases where we
can potentially deny today? 
Automation potential may be higher if system can detect duplicates well and if
MPS usage is discontinued for this use case/glitch fixed.
 Poon, Howard, as an aside, happen to notice from the stats in an operational
perspective, some claims owners are approving hydro only which was not the
intent…but at least the numbers are very very small
#6 – denied physio but approved hydro = 36
#8 – approve hydro only = 4
Dev scenarios
Scenario – dev decides a story is not reday to work on in the middle of the
sprint (william's ticket https://dev.azure.com/wcbbc/IT App-
Delivery/_workitems/edit/778905 )
BE removed it from sprint but we had a story that is a stretch with 8 points so that
will take up any free capacity/ therefore didnʼt replace william's ticket with any
other story
Planning around carebear's freed up capacity. There was a concern that we
wouldnʼt be able ship everything we had planned for by q2. To make that possible
started looking for pods with additional capacity  -
Zak as BE for carebears let me and harm know that there is freed up capacity
from devs of carebears and additional funding of upto $100K In 2024
Behavioral experiences
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
For year of 2024 for provider expansion $300K was approved. Of which
pioneers devs will use 190K up till the end of the year. Cms team is anticipated to
use 60 80K.
This is good because now simultaneously two pods can work on different parts of
the project without conflict. As po I has prioritize what gets built out next. But
this woiuld depend on how much capacity has been freed up and which devs have
capacity.
Planning and build/ budget scenarios
Pxt is going to shift hands from pioneers to carebears in the new year. Zak
reached out to understand scope for carebears and at what point transfer was
happening. In order to ship everything we had in mind before running out of
budget, zak suggested that carebears start work now as he
thinks devs on carebears has capacity. Depending on how much capacity they
have we can structure stories for the following situations
If tony has capacity he can do the doc uploader for cvpt extensions
If it is other devs on carebears with capacity, they cans tart with other
front end forms
If overall there is capacity can work on above tasks simultaneously
Risk with this – 2 sets of devs from different pods will work on the same code base
. They could write over each other and it could be more expensive.  finding ways
to implement trunk based development.
I and zak started writing out other user stories and then took them to devs of both
pods.
In my xp recently, it has worked better for us to come to the table with Stories
written and explained from the Product perspective. Then they can fill in the gaps
with the tech perspective. It saves most of their time.
Sometimes devs are better are story writing and want to be involved from an early
conceptual level - but I haven't seen that the case here. It just makes them
confused and they don't enjoy sitting in the meeting watching the Story being
written and the PM/PO/BE talking and figuring things out.
Most challenging part of provider expansion project
Behavioral experiences
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
instead of updating existing data tables within CMS that captures all the new info
from our new forms, we believe creating a new data table on our end would be
more beneficial so that we only retrieve the request decision and rationale from
CMS
Question for you - To do the above, how will mapping our datable and CMS
occur? Will it be claim number, provider ID, cms reference number or a
combination of one or more of these values?
Michael
Currently, the request is submitted through DocUploader to CMS, but the request
information is not saved in the online side. For this reason, we have a sensor that
reads CMS HUB DB and surface up the request information (submitted request
and approval information). This information flow won't be changing.
With new request types, current online DB tables will be used mainly to store the
approval information from CMS. New table will be created to capture the request
information for different request types (same information will be submitted to CMS
as well). Based on my understanding, there could be multiple requests with claim#
& provider ID combination, so we need a link between what we have collected
online and what CMS has approved.
Thought about few options. Regardless of the type, my assumption is all requests
are going to be PDF submission to CMS. This means CMS Reference# will be
returned and we can link RequestSubmission (online side)
and ProviderRequest/RequestItem  CMS side). Or we can use
INCOMING_REFERENCE_NUM, but it requires additional changes in CMS.
While CMS change hasn't been explored yet, I am not sure if we can address my
question at this point. Maybe we can meet and discuss.
Mimi
can you send me a copy of what CMS sends to the portal (ie XML you get)...just
want to take a look at what we currently supply.  The reason I ask is that we do
have a request ID whenever a request is created in CMS.  It doesn't show on any
screens but it is stored in the database and it is a unique identifier for the
request....we could contemplate sending you this ID (we probably already send it
to you in the existing  xml interface...that's why I wanted to take a look)
Behavioral experiences
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
Michael
CMS Listener calls ICCDataSweeper to submit a request. Currently, endpoint
returns below XML including CMSRef#.
XML
 ?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? 
 Envelope xmlns="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/">
 Body>
 SubmitDocumentResponse xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-
instance" xmlns="http://worksafebc.com/ICCDataSweeperMessages">
 ReturnCode>1 /ReturnCode>
 ReturnDescription>ReturnDescription1 /ReturnDescription>
 ReferenceNumber>ReferenceNumber1 /ReferenceNumber>
</SubmitDocumentResponse>
</Body>
</Envelope>
There is no API interface for the decision data. Sensor is retrieving PXT from
CMSHUB and update directly to the Online DB. Current online DB structure
is Information Viewpoint - Overview. Yes, request ID is unique and if we can get
the request ID upon submission, it would work for us.
Either we can create a new endpoint
in ICCDataSweeper for ProviderRequestSubmission or online side can pass unique
identifier which can be stored in the Request table to be surface up later, so we
can link.
Mimi
maybe...I'm just thinking that for all 7 use case, the pattern should be consistent
going forward  I'm not sure why physio extension use case should be different
than the others)....but it's more of an architectural strategy between you
and Chitanya when we get there....
I should clarify...either the old way or new way...just saying it shoud probably be
consistent
Behavioral experiences
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
Michael
Yes. Main reason is we used DocUploader to submit PhysioExtension, which
doesn't store what was captured in the Online side. The PXT application simply
retrieve what was submitted and decided, so DB table structure is very similar to
CMS table structure. However, more types, we can't use this pattern because
different request type has different data model, that's why different approach is
required. Moving forward, we should do it with a new way as it is more flexible.
What we can surface up from CMS would be only decision data, no need to
surface up what was submitted.
Mimi
Thanks for the background.
Having similar dilemma on the CMS side as well....how to structure requests in the
database to be more flexible and consistent....will get there once I get an better
understanding of the problem space and ready to start thinking on design.
Michael
On Friday, I discussed the high level approach with Chitanya. Online side passes
an unique identifier when the request is submitted. The unique number will be
stored in the request table in CMS, so it can be surfaced up and linked. I just
wanted to post here, so we can be on the same page.
Mimi
let's reconvene during design phase.  If portal is already in design stage, then let's
have a group meeting (pls invite Chitanya & Rajat from the CMS side).  Reason I
say this is that these request don't only come from the portal....the physio
extension come from fax/mail so needs to understand wholistically how all these
requests will be handle in the future.  Best to discuss in group setting.
Negotiating with other POs
   With howard (for tony and madhu as smes for pioneers)
   With farhad – security vulnerabilities came up that would impact story points
that were allotted for pioneers devs for PRQ. Either his project would need to
be de-prioritized or mine
Behavioral experiences
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
   With mimi to reduce scope of discovery on her end – carebears had already
done the discovery that spanned months and we had defined the scope
for mimi's team for discovery which was limited to the cms wizard. She
wanted to undertake discovery of her own going over how the product has
evolved. A few concerns with this approach
a  There was no cap on her end about when she would finish discovery ("I
donʼt know what I donʼt know"). This was risky as we had only $300 worth
of budget left for the foreseeable future for this product.
And carebears was sitting to start work. Until discovery was done, it was
hard to know for sure what cms would be ready for so
that carebear devs can build that out on the front end. Cms team wasnʼt
ready to commit to an end date.
b  By increasing the scope of the discovery on their end, we would digress as
we would start to get feedback on provider facing/ forms that historically
didnʼt sit too well with COs but it was imperative from a provider
perspective
i  For example COs didnʼt find the need to have forms built out for
interruptions. They just wanted providers to call instead. But this had
already been validated by providers and they saw it as important so
that there was written record for it
Mimi's argument was – depending on her discovery there could be an instance
where COs would like to share more information with providers than has been
prototyped. Thiss could result in changes in the UX/UI of the product
What we wanted -
   Our PO be included in their discovery to guardrail it
   Reduced time and scope of discovery so that we can get to dev soon
   We set the agenda for their discovery
How we did it
We placed bets/ took risks on features we had strong inclination that would be
built out by cms too (for example view details. How this would look like would
only be slighlty different)
Behavioral experiences
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
Got cms team in touch with business sponsors re-emphasizing the need for
this product and that we wont have any money left if we lose it this time. This
project had to be accomplished in 2023
Harm's way to negotiate - In this scenario, I have the luxury of being senior
and can negotiate with Taric first - he understands the timeline and cost
constraints, but I need to understand if he is letting her do this approach to
keep her happy.
As peer to peer, itʼs a bit more challenging because we are asking for support -
even though it is inefficient support. So, if it were just you and Mimi, youʼd
have to show her the steps that were taken to validate with case managers
and providers and show how weʼve already narrowed and prioritized the
scope.
What should have happened -
As we knew there were CMS dependencies, mimi should have been part of the
initial discovery sessions. If not that, there shouldve been a KT session of the
initial discovery to her team
Getting buy-in for usability/ better UX features – non functional features
In my opinion there is not a single direct answer. Have to understand hierarchies
and motivations behind this/ thought processes and give-and-take. Be ready to
offer first and then ask. Understand incentives
   Depends on whose buy in you need.
Somebody who needs to put in money/ directors/ sponsors/ cross-team
leaders -
Other POs -
Engineering leaders/ Devs -
Customers -
   Where has the feature request come from – if it is someone higher up on the
ladder or lower
   Demos
Behavioral experiences
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
   Evidence from other products/ cross domains. Industries/ products with similar
goals/ outcomes
   Heatmaps
   Internal sponsors/ ambassadors for the feature/ product/ idea for example –
error validation artifact, font size for disclaimers
Mimi trying to squeeze in carebears budget to complete cms discovery
Took 1.5 to complete discovery – shouldnʼt have taken that long
PRQ – funding success
Narrative We are not ready to add additional types of requests because
physiotherapy spend is overboard suggesting current workflows must be
optimized first to enable efficient decision making for claim owners before
taking on new request types
the already existing physio extension request is incomplete without a claim
owner decision rationale that provides an end-to-end functional user
experience for providers - the lack of which results in an increased number of
provider phone calls (an issue that would persist if new request types were
catered to before this is fixed). Reprioritization is needed to scale up CMS.
optimization of the current request types will set the foundation to take on
additional request types
Technical learning for me 
1. how to test without real apis so that we can get this to system test
Allow for intercepting
Merge to master
System test is not working because an api url is missing and the new page is also
missing
2. while retrieving info from a database, dev is getting a 500 error
Behavioral experiences
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
Impact made as PO
Working with other POs. Mimi
Result/ impact – updating each other's acceptance criteria, dropping
questions, more clarity on roadblocks
Backlog transparency for both pods
Sprint check ins and updates
Ideas from devs – tony
Why not just scarp everything and use the existing physio app (pxt) to ship view
details to make most use of dev capacity and funds to meet deadline (assuming
we werent getting funding)
Decisions that I made 
Question for you... do we want to deploy available PRQ enhancements earlier than
the CMS launch?
Since CMS won't deploy their part to PR until early April... we could...
A   Wait until April for everything
B   Deploy all of the enhancements except for Decision Rationale earlier. Then
deploy the Decision Rationale in April.
If we went this approach we need to adjust the email to not suggest there is a
Decision Rationale, or not push the email changes. (not true)
For Providers - the new View Details page with everything other than the
Comments box.
The ultimate question is... Is it worth giving this to Providers two months early? Or
it is worth it to us to get earlier feedback?
If not, it's easier development wise to push it all out at the same time in April.
i would like for us to deploy early for the following reasons -
Behavioral experiences
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
get early feedback
Giving some buffer time for incidents - if issues or bugs come up/ calls/
incidents come in, it would give us some lead time to investigate/ fix
(depending on how big or small it is) before we wrap up this project with the
decision rationale launch
a deep link with informative details is already a good value add for starters
uncertainty with dev capacity (tony may or not be with carebears for 4
months). i am not sure what this would mean for end to end testing with cms
Make email field mandatory or not in the anonymous doc uploader
There would be no decision email if the field is left blank
The only email that gets sent out is the one that is in that box.
This is the existing functionality
PO's concern on this - yeah then is it worth building the decision email out if
providers were to leave that blank. most even experience the value add of this
launch
Got data to see how many requests didnʼt have an email attached to them to make
this decision
Behavioral experiences
47

--- PAGE 48 ---
Testing prq statuses for launch
Approach
Behavioral experiences
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
Automated – upload all combinations of statuses and requests on track
request screen and PO checks against expected outcome
Or manual – more end to end testing, a request is submitted for every
combination, then it received, changes are made to database as cms is not
ready
Automated was preferred until cms is ready as end to end testing was going to
happen anyway with
mimi's team
Other conflict -
Who drives testing – QA/devs or POs
Using fake or real data
Testing in system was not required as it would be manual. You submit one request
at a time and then check .
Instead tony and madhu will just create unit tests for each test scenario and attach
proof of success
Behavioral experiences
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
Toughest person to work with 
1. Doug – change management and comms lead for the bceid project
We were days before our comms roll-out and he was asking fundamental
questions about the project like which system were they resetting passwords for
He had been attending all our meetings for user flow for the past 3 months, had
been recording sessions but waited too long to clarify the project.
He didnʼt take agency/ ownership of any tasks. Meetings were scheduled not to
talk about strategy but to clarify his questions about the project.
I met with PM to figure what exactly he recruited doug for on the project -
I started to appreciate that not everyone on this project has the same appetite
for technical projects
2. andrew
Competing priorities
   Closing an 8-pointer story for the sprint (prq)
Roadblock for this was the test cases for statuses to be displayed on the portal.
Tony and madhu were waiting for final test cases so that they could write their
script.
   Bceid comms roll-out happening same week
Comms and change management for 600 providers across BC, 8 internal
departments, across 3 different systems and 2 vendors (bceid/ prov
govt, worksafe/ forgerock and telus)
Things i realized about being a PO
Need to be involved in most things that you usually find trivial
For example in the below email that would go out to providers when a decision
is made, the create account link takes them to Creating an online services
account as a health care or service provider | WorkSafeBC
Versus taking them to Registration
Behavioral experiences
50

--- PAGE 51 ---
I thought this was trivial to link people to the registration page to create new
accounts but experience team had other thoughts
Options I had
so our options are
leave the link as is in the email
change the link so that users land on the registration page AND add a line the
email to say 'Please note - to track your requests and view decisions,
remember to link your account with your associated payee number as part of
your account creation setup. More information here Creating an online
services account as a health care or service provider | WorkSafeBC'
Had to be involved in testing statuses for the portal
Behavioral experiences
51

--- PAGE 52 ---
Disagreed with harm on
Hi Khushboo,
Came across a production incident relation to Physio extension request whereby
the provide submitted a request but entered the wrong payee# in their
submission https://dev.azure.com/wcbbc/IT App-Delivery/_workitems/edit/818726
Have there or will there or can there be plans to mitigate from the portal in the
future.  Ie, if the provider portal is now behind authentication, can the portal pre-
populate the payee number (instead of the payee manually entering) as part of the
process….this would definitely mitigate/eliminate data entry errors and the
repercussions…..food for thought as this incident just came in.
Thanks
Mimi
Hi Mimi. Thank you for bringing this up.
Yes this was considered in our initial scope but because of the scope cut down,
we couldn't build this feature as it requires the physio app to be behind
authentication. Authentication would help us
Carry the payee number they logged in with throughout the submission
process without the need for them to manually enter that info
We would be able to retrieve their contract information and only display forms
for the contract they signed up for (for example if they only have a physio
contract, they wouldn't be able to submit cvpt related forms for that payee
number- which apparently is a common error too as providers
sometimes sometimes submit physio extensions as cvpt extensions and
there's a lot of manual work required on our end to reroute such submissions)
These are already noted and in the backlog. In the future, if funding and time
permit, we would like to work on this. Hope that helps.
Thanks.
Khushboo
Thanks Khushboo,
Maybe something worth chatting to Harm about to make the smaller change
sooner (and the bigger scope later)…the reason I mention this is that incident
Behavioral experiences
52

--- PAGE 53 ---
mentioned that this is a FIPP breach (not exactly sure whether this is or not but
likely since another payee is seeing the details of a different payee)…so thinking it
may warrant earlier consideration because of this.  But leave it to your team to
prioritize accordingly.
Thanks,
Mimi
[impact statement] Impact on InfoX
Won 80K ot build a proof of concept
Set the vision for project
Broke down roadmap
Did discovery
Engaged smes such as michael jo to better envision the product
Leveraged personal connections such as general physician to get quicker
feedback and testing on poc. Better understand painpoints
Questions to ask proprietary emr vendors
If we have a web service that can accept metadata and we provide a
rest api client, can they provide a json meta data
Our contract is swagger, we can send it to them
What is the effort/feasibility on their end to submit json
Can they use the one end point to submit both pdf and meta data at the
same time
What are you proud of/ why you should have a test and learn attitude/
why smes thoughts arent written in stone
For infox, smes told us that the hardest part of the project would be to
get emrs onboard as they dont have any incentive. We may have to think about
incentivizing them through monetary benefits to get them to integrate with us. This
was an assumption/ hypothesis/ risk we were ready to work with.
Behavioral experiences
53

--- PAGE 54 ---
But surprisingly, the more emrs and billing systems we met with – it became clear
they wanted to integrate because each one had the same incentive as ours: to
provide the best experience for doctors and user experience, they were willing to
do whatever it takes. As they would want to retain their clientele too
We wanted three outcomes when meeting with emrs -
   Are they able to update our forms
   Are they willing to integrate with us
   Can they maintain the wsbc branding and look/feel of the form
Understanding why wsbc is small fish
We small fish because few of the patients that walk through a doctorsʼ office
doors are actually injured workers.  If they see, say, 35 patients in a day on a GP,
itʼs possible zero are workers.
I don't see any significant numbers of physicians partnering with us for the "we
are WCB" reason.  If anything, they want to avoid it.
We'll cover any treatment associated to an accepted injury.  I think the way we
become a bigger fish is increasing our payments... i.e. if you fill out this version of
the F8, it pays more
we have incentives in place to encourage quick submission of forms
Behavioral experiences
54

--- PAGE 55 ---
We get  115,000 F8/11s in a year.  There are about 128,000 GP visits in a year
for worksafebc workers.
for context. the public system paid for 1,910,000 GP visits
this is why i think we're small fish in a big pond.    128,000 GP visits vs. 1,910,000
GP visits
it doesn't matter where and when they got hurt
injuries and illnesses just need to have been caused by work. time and place
matter but aren't conclusive either way
technically, it's WorkSafeBC that decides whether a person is an injured worker.  If
your claim isn't allowed, then you're just an injured person.
we pay for filling out the form even when the claim isn't accepted.
we keep paying for those forms until a claim is disallowed
Incident handling
Behavioral experiences
55

--- PAGE 56 ---
Problem investigation . Email sent to case manager in question so that business
concern that treatment for worker shouldnʼt stop is taken care of
Behavioral experiences
56

--- PAGE 57 ---
Behavioral experiences
57

--- PAGE 58 ---
   Called the provider in question to double check if they used the correct claim
number and asked them to walk through steps they took
see howards comment on incident
   Open cms prod support to pull up claim and see if the request made it through
in cms. All three requests and the fax one didnʼt make it
   Checked datatables using tableau to see if it made it in the raw data, it first
gets stored in the raw data and then in cms – not in datatables too
   Checked if there were any cms prod outages – none
   Checked how many claims or providers this was affecting – impacting only
one claim for one provider. Other claims for same provider no issues – she just
submitted a request for a new claim
   Given that this incident is deprioritized for devs.
   But after some investigation, we would need to bring in careberas dev to
check if this is a pxt issue or cms/ claims issue.
   If I had contacts in cms wouldve just reached out to them to check
Another incident INC0196523 | Incident | ServiceNow
   User uploading pxt request form but it never made it to cms
User was using doc uploader
   But they labelled the form incorrectly while submitting
   This didnʼt trigger the submission process
   Emailed user back to redo it correctly
Creative problem solving
For cms enhancements, leadership was worried that COs will only leave a '.' or '?'
In the rationale box which would defeat the purpose of having that feature. While
this is a performance oversight issue, they were wondering if we could more
proactively avoid that with drop down lists for high level decisions
Behavioral experiences
58

--- PAGE 59 ---
Concern with this from a dev and launch perspective was that dev had been
completed and we were ready for testing and launch soon. This drop down would
not only need a new field addition but also data model changes and presenting
this info back to the portal.
a quick fix of validation was suggested like min character count but how helpful
would that be?
I suggested the following where the text box could have pre-populated text
suggestions for cos to choose from with min and max one selection. The co could
choose to leave the suggestion as is or add comments to it to elaborate. This
would address leadership concerns and we would not need a data model change
as we were leveraging the same column already built for the test box. Update -
Behavioral experiences
59

--- PAGE 60 ---
couldnʼt use this as cms team wasnʼt sure of the curam (framework that cms sits
on) capabilities. This would require more time than we have in our hands  3 weeks
until launch)
Decision made about the above
Behavioral experiences
60

--- PAGE 61 ---
A couple of things helped us with infoX even though there were concerns about
EMRs not wanting to integrate with us
The narrative we take and how we present ourselves. The phrase would you
like to integrate with us sounds intimidating and also overwhelming because
we started to realize that vendors were interpreting this as it is going to a lot of
work for them so even before they consider asking a follow-up question, they
said no. Versus wsbc saying we have an api we are building out, are you able
to take that and connect to us.
Be more assertive than asking questions like we were wondering, instead we
just said changes to our forms are coming and this is what we are asking of
all emr vendors to do
Bceid anticipating major user call influx/ mess-up after cutover of march 27th
Internal team sent first outreach to providers on feb 21st to 1500 org admins.
1100
65 were auto-reply
~ 47 were responded
What about the rest? Have they not read it?
Impact on bceid
Updated test scenarios based on user responses we were getting after first
outreach. For example, multiple people using the same email address currently
for the same clinic. We would check for duplicates in this case before we
upload excel sheet of users to create accounts for them on forgerock
Resources group created by sri for infox
Behavioral experiences
61

--- PAGE 62 ---
User stories
Document router
Behavioral experiences
62

--- PAGE 63 ---
Sample form 8 xml Form8.xml
Sample form 11 xml Form11.xml
InfoX b2b security pattern
B2B mtLS +subscription key is approved security pattern  Future pattern -
Overview) !!!  From external to APIM - public certificate should be registered to
APIM... This wiki Certificate Renewal Process - Overview can provide the
Behavioral experiences
63

--- PAGE 64 ---
overview.  API consumer  3rd party) should send the public cert to us. 
Subscription key is used for metrics and trouble shooting. Strongly recommend to
send it.  Without it, we don't know who is calling what..
we have example of this pattern used for other vendors : B2BProxy CTRS IN and
B2BProxy MELS IN!
Mutual transaction security or 2 way SSL From external to APIM - public certificate
should be registered to APIM... This wiki Certificate Renewal Process -
Overview can provide the overview.  API consumer  3rd party) should send the
public cert to us.  Subscription key is used for metrics and trouble shooting.
Strongly recommend to send it.  Without it, we don't know who is calling what..
Prq UAT testing for cms enhancements with COs – led by mimi 
Behavioral experiences
64

--- PAGE 65 ---
Conflict with comms and marketing 
would it not be possible to still send the comms out after the launch? because the
features we are looking to launch are just enhancements and from a user
experience perspective there isnt substantial that is changing. i'm afraid if we
delay, there is more we could lose than gain for the following reasons
i just checked with the dev team and if we were to delay even just by a day, we
would need all 6 applications within MPS to go through security review again
which is a lot more effort for the dev team that is already pretty swamped as
we lost a senior developer to another pod and are just about ramping up the
new one.
there is a chance that things could break during launch which would give the
team enough time between march 5th and april 5 to resolve those issues.
there's another team (team phoenix) that is waiting for us launching
on wednesday
if we wait until april 5th to do a full launch, we would be putting all our eggs in
one basket that would delay multiple projects on the roadmap
Does every single small enhancement need to be updated? What is the point of
comms – to update? Or to get users excited about what is coming up.
My take - i dont have a strong preference to this as this is just an enhancement to
a workflow to make sure they receive those decision notifications. it is not a new
feature. and in fact is probably a bit more work for providers to enter this
info. i'd be okay to not highlight this. but if there is a strong preference for
this, i'm okay too. this has been done as sometimes providers dont log in to submit
requests. if the email field wasnt mandatory, there would be no email to send the
decision to.
Behavioral experiences
65

--- PAGE 66 ---
Provider experience – adapting faqs based on initial outreach and most types of
questions
Bceid – test accounts and test data for bceid replacement
Scope for dev - How many accounts are there for us to use? 6 accounts in dev
env with associated bceid guids. One of them is present in cpr. These will be
valid email addresses. The others will be added to cpr manually upon
completing registration in forgerock. There is no bceid integration in dev.
For new accounts. Test case for cpr - We arent testing new accounts as there
is no integration with ths. Wsbc will create a new account in forgerock and
share the email address and guid to cpr team. Cpr will enter that info in their
code and retrieve the guid.
Need use case and user journey documentation to inform test accounts
Behavioral experiences
66

--- PAGE 67 ---
As po I wanted something more cleaner, like linkedin requests where the character
counter in inside the box on the bottom right hand corner as 90/100 and keeps
reducing from there. But this would need david to create a new design component
as a template doesnʼt exist already. Decided to deprioritize this as was not critical
to the project, no other projects probably see value in this right now and my
project didnʼt have a lot of open text fields.
But if there are other bigger projects that were form heavy that would benefit from
it, it is important to have that.
Building design artifacts with david – for multiple reasons
Easier for product to communicate with devs and BE for user stories
More effective for devs as visual cues into functionality
Artifacts for design so when we do scale the product out to other provider
types, we can reuse most of this
ux-demo.online.dv.worksafebc.com/UXGUIDES/guide-errorhandling.html
Behavioral experiences
67

--- PAGE 68 ---
Behavioral experiences
68

--- PAGE 69 ---
[impact statement] BCeID
Shipped an enterprise authentication tool using SAML authentication enabling
fast authorization checks at enormous scale while maintaining a flexible model
that can be adapted to even the most complex use cases. Built a role-based
access control with other features such as SSO, MFA, user management and
self-serve (forgerock implementation)
Bceid – test accounts and test data for bceid replacement
Scope for dev - How many accounts are there for us to use? 6 accounts in dev
env with associated bceid guids. One of them is present in cpr. These will be
Behavioral experiences
69

--- PAGE 70 ---
valid email addresses. The others will be added to cpr manually upon
completing registration in forgerock. There is no bceid integration in dev.
For new accounts. Test case for cpr - We arent testing new accounts as there
is no integration with ths. Wsbc will create a new account in forgerock and
share the email address and guid to cpr team. Cpr will enter that info in their
code and retrieve the guid.
Need use case and user journey documentation to inform test accounts
Conflict with innovation  
Context this was an idea submitted by the product team and money for it is
coming from innovation. They set the scope for it and when we tried to push the
scope they werent willing to. It cost us only about 2 3 k to make the form update.
So we had a bunch of money an dev/oscar support to expand scope. So what was
the actual issue that innovation was trying to wrap this up by end of march. 
Pxt deployment on march 5. select features 
Zak approving/deploy 6 pipelines
Jaime doing database change of creating rationale field
Khawar will deploy integration pipeline
Change with this pipeline (what khawar was supposed to deploy – change of
one field to our api end point)
Behavioral experiences
70

--- PAGE 71 ---
Our deployment is impacting other people
Behavioral experiences
71

--- PAGE 72 ---
Issues
The email field wasnʼt made mandatory – team pre-maturely closed the ticket.
Ticket was closed without a path ticket to deployment. Ticket needs to be
reopened
In sys test requests show up on track requests, it reflects after 20 mins
Prioritization and reasoning example for infox
Should we leverage existing doc uploader or build our own?
Preference from dev was to build out own. But my concerns were if this will
impact the timeline?
Does it stay true to the overall vision of the project that we want it to scale to other
types of emrs. What is the effort/ cost like for us
Why cant we use doc uploader – it is used only for file upload. Doesnʼt convert it
to pdfs which this poc would need,
Behavioral experiences
72

--- PAGE 73 ---
What makes bceid a project that required complex technical execution to get
features to market?
Behavioral experiences
73

--- PAGE 74 ---
Pmg only tests in production. Pmg is a business customer for cpr team. Pmg
doesnʼt want to test in stage/uat as they have never done it before. Conflict in
between teams of the same org. Pmg vs cpr. Usually uat tests are done by qa
and pmg wants this to continue along with a sprint demo
I am so pissed off at TELUS and PCIS for not upgrading their software stack.
We are in very bad situation by supporting old week ciphers for long time and
DevSecOps has to act as these week ciphers can be compromised and can be
sniffed by the middeman.
Telus and PCIS have neglected the support of infrastructure for the Provider
Portal for a very long time. Technologies like Tivoli FIM and Glassfish are very,
very old. Java 1.6 was end of life from Oracle in October of 2018.
We had two urgent problems we needed to resolve 20 days away from launch
   Provider portal Grassfish stack is old and Security and integration team are
disabling the strong ciphers which is already communicated to TELUS long
ago. I am sure this will trigger prod issue when week ciphers are removed.
Option1  Stop the deployment of strong ciphers which needs DevSecOps
waiver
Option2  Paul and TELUS take the opportunity to work with strong ciphers.
I recommend this as week ciphers are major concern by Deloitte auditor
and as a company it will put us in very week position.
   Connectivity to BCeID is still not completed. We need IPSEC to be in place
ASAP so that Nishant can start testing it.
We need to involve devsecops urgently
Behavioral experiences
74

--- PAGE 75 ---
Notification of upcoming APIM WAF SSL Policy Update
Whatʼs happening?
In response to Securityʼs requirement, WorkSafeBC Integration Services Team will
be updating the Web Application Firewall  WAF  SSL policies to eliminate support
for weak ciphers across both Non-Production and Production environments.
When is it happening?
Non-Production environments: By end of the day, February 28, 2025
Production environment: By end of the day, March 31, 2025
What will be affected?
As a result of this change, API requests using the following weak ciphers will no
longer be supported by WorkSafeBC after the above dates:
Behavioral experiences
75

--- PAGE 76 ---
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
WorkSafeBC will continue to support:
TLS protocol: TLS1.3/TLS1.2
Strong ciphers:
TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
What do I need to do?
Before February 28, 2025  Non-Production):
Upgrade your systems(Non-Production) if you are using weak ciphers to ensure
compatibility with the updated policies.  Impacted non-production hostnames are:
Behavioral experiences
76

--- PAGE 77 ---
https://api.online.<env>.worksafebc.com
https://apima.online.<env>.worksafebc.com
By March 15, 2025 
Test your transactions in Non-Production and confirm they are functioning
correctly. Unless advised, WorkSafeBC  Integration Services) will proceed with
production implementation on March 31st.
By March 30, 2025  Production):
Upgrade your systems  Production) to remove reliance on the weak ciphers. 
Impacted production host names are:
https://api.online.worksafebc.com
https://apima.online.worksafebc.com
What do I need to do?
Please contact the Technology Support Desk at local 3000  604.276.3000) or
email ISHelp  SM) if you have any questions or concerns.
We apologize for any inconvenience you may encounter as a result of
this outage change.
Thank you,
Technology Support Desk
Behavioral experiences
77

--- PAGE 78 ---
Behavioral experiences
78

--- PAGE 79 ---
Behavioral experiences
79

--- PAGE 80 ---
Behavioral experiences
80

--- PAGE 81 ---
Behavioral experiences
81

--- PAGE 82 ---
Behavioral experiences
82

--- PAGE 83 ---
Behavioral experiences
83

--- PAGE 84 ---
Behavioral experiences
84

--- PAGE 85 ---
Behavioral experiences
85

--- PAGE 86 ---
Behavioral experiences
86

--- PAGE 87 ---
Delaying launch for telus
   Webservices call for prov govt to pull email addresses not ready
   Uptake from first outreach not sure. We would rather giver users more time to
give us an email address to avoid a lot of manual effort after launch
   CPR not sticking with schedule
   New user flow journeys identified. Gy's update on dev env and user shaving to
log in twice
Impact -
Behavioral experiences
87

--- PAGE 88 ---
   Carebears. Stories need update and timelines get pushed over to next sprint
   Team motivation
Displayed leadership by talking to leadership and having leadership
acknowledging the work the team has done so far despite the challenges of
working with vendors. Showing extreme adaptability and quick decision
making, perseverance
Security delaying final prq launch by a week  
Behavioral experiences
88

--- PAGE 89 ---
Behavioral experiences
89

--- PAGE 90 ---
Behavioral experiences
90

--- PAGE 91 ---
Behavioral experiences
91

--- PAGE 92 ---
Behavioral experiences
92

--- PAGE 93 ---
Behavioral experiences
93

--- PAGE 94 ---
Having connections or point of contacts
Howard always has a point of contact at help desk/ voc channels to be able to get
quick informal feedback or troubleshoot user issues
Conflict between QA resource and lead security on BCeID project
Issue – qa (niraj wasnʼt satisfied with how lead security (guy) was going to
manage launch day with manual intervention of bceid email addresses. Especially
Behavioral experiences
94

--- PAGE 95 ---
if the email address already exists in forgerock (ie bceid users are also forgerock
users)
BCeID retrospective 
Retrospectives - Boards
5 people were representing the CPR team and they had no idea about their
systems. They had the limited job in this project but they took forerver to
understand apis
Limited test accounts causing delays. Cms team need to use the one end-to-
end test account for their purposes which caused paul's team some delay
Physiotherapy predictive model (nathan horvath – discovery with data scientist)
   What was the goal of the model
Prescriptive model. Should tell cos what should they do. When a pxt request
comes in should I accept it, or reject it or reject and refer elsewhere. It was trying
to use causal links to different action
   What was the data that was used / types of forms?
General characteristic of a claim up to the point of the extension decisions. Like
billing, past treatment. Coudlnt use the pxt forms which has most of this
information (since history of the claim)
   For each prediction it was looking at available data for that particular injured
worker? (was it looking at any other data? Internal or external meta-data)
3 models are chained together (casual) as a result your are using all samples.
There should be learning from clusters indirectly. It is fundamentally doing that but
data is garbage
   What were the variables/ input data
For a micro model. Technicallimitaion to how much we can thro at the model
   What was the expected and actual output
First this is spit out RTW likelihood. Followed by - Reduced by xx% how do you
maximize rtw likelihood. Or1, or2, hand and something else. Was built for claim
owners.
Behavioral experiences
95

--- PAGE 96 ---
   What were some metrics you looked at for model performance
In Predicitng estimates and changes in outcomes, we donʼt know what would have
heppend if that extension was denied. It not truly a predictive model (accuracy
measure is not possible). What is the model saying overall and get a rough
distribution of it.
   How was the model tested
Just basic testing. Looked at specific people's cases. Better data and access to
those forms. (key forms they were able to convert to data – 6,7,8 and 11 
   Did yal use any SME's while designing this model?
Just adam
   How was the training set developed?
   What went wrong
Trying to establish casuality with data that we collect in our warehouse is difficult.
We tried to come up with a map of variables. Hidden confounding with decisions.
It is not clear to the analyst what cos factored into their decision. Even if we were
able to get this info, there would be bias. Other thing is support netwrok at their
job. This could impact the evaluation and would determine that a psych vsiit is
required
   What is the double data science model (double machine learning – fit the
model on an outcome)
a  Correction of outcomes
b  Treatment recommendations
   How can the model be improved
Randomized control trial in medical set up but this is tough to justify
Come up with some rule that decision makers use to avoid bias (what is driving a
COs decision process). Inan ideal world we would have a decision tree
   Are you aware of any data extraction initiatives going on that we can use
   How long did it take to build
A couple of months' worth of iteration.
Behavioral experiences
96

--- PAGE 97 ---
   Any documentation on this
   What makes up risk (drill it doen to outcomes and mutli outcome model is
possible)
   The decision rationale wouldnʼt help with the model
Other questions for nathan – how did you arrive at causal modeling for this project,
were there other solutions considered
Chat with harold cilima (dev on medical disclosures)
   what was your role in the medical disclosures project – developer. Database
changes
   What were yal trying to accomplish with the project – physicians want to
search insdie medical disclosures and they donʼt have the right tools to
search. What about adobe search (ai search is not safe. Share data with adobe
with sensitive information. Emails not safe either). We wanted to give
physicians a tool for search for a temporary period. We use AI to search inside
a pdf. Do extraction. Put in database, find in database and put into an llm and
llm output is shared with providers. The ai interprets images like xrays.
Security for information handling is only for the time that that the provider
needs.
a  Semantic and hybrid search
b  Was gen ai considered
   What technology is powering that goal
   How did you arrive at that solution. Were other solutions considered
   Data extraction – how is it being done
Python code and open ai
   What kind of data can be extracted
   Where does the extracted data get stored
   What kind of data can be fed into it
   Can the following file formats be extracted – doc/dox, pdfs, image types (png,
jpeg, heic, tiff)
Behavioral experiences
97

--- PAGE 98 ---
Easier to interept pdfs versus images  but images is possible
   Can we try an example of the pxt form if he has access or do you have an
example of where a pdf form was extracted
   How long did it take to build this solution
Openai 
Data extraction technologies
Ocr (free but not great quality). Python code, open ai (expensive but great quality)
Harm set healthcare feedback sessions (program managers for healthcare,
directors of healthcare operations, healthcare programs, clinical services director,
chief medical officer)
   Healthcare pod is only 1 year old. First year was to set the pod up. Resource
development and push a few successful projects out (prq and bceid)
   Harm role with this session is to get a list of problems, validate if this is a
problem and get more info on it (most problems have come from kpmg's
maturity analysis)
   Feedback came from kpmg maturity analysis, HC programs, business
capability mapping
Behavioral experiences
98

--- PAGE 99 ---
Our tech stack is heavily regulated by common engineering
They get to decide that we are using angular for front end and .NET for backend
At the product level we do not have the autonomy to suggest technology
The team wanted to try microsoft's blazor and they built a poc too but common
engineering said that it is not mature enough or well supported so enterprise level
integrations werent great.
Behavioral experiences
99

--- PAGE 100 ---
So they preferred everyone just upgrade angular versions instead. But these
upgrades were manual so it was taking up a lot of dev time and therefore money
spent on our projects. But now common engineering is looking to leverage AI to
automate these upgrades.
It takes our dev team
6months for learning new tech
6 months implementing new tech
Dev team is equipped to write their own user stories given an epic and write their
own tasks out  
Behavioral experiences
100

--- PAGE 101 ---
Launch day gets delayed due to testing issues
WOR example
Issue – no testing plan in place. Dependent on 1 qa to do testing
Getting funding estimates based on story points
How much money are we asking for and for how long
1sp ~ $1000 or $2000. This is based on the performance of our team in the past
Behavioral experiences
101

--- PAGE 102 ---
Conflict with devs
About incidents, after looking at everything and investigating it still wasnʼt getting
fixed do devs wanted to providers to get on a call to show what they are seeing
From a product perspective this wasnʼt feasible. Had to explain the following
You cant get providers on call just to get them to test again or try again.
They are already calling l1 and l2, you have to empathize and understand they
donʼt want to talk to a bunch of devs and talk to so many people
Have to understand the type of user you are trying to get on a call. These are
providers, they do not have the time to get on calls. Historically we have to pay
providers as incentive to jump on a call with us. This should be an absolute last
resort and preferably not required at all
You cant have providers share screen given the data they are dealing with.
But as product you also want to empathize with devs as they have tried everything
they could and they are restricted as they donʼt have production level access to
replicate the error.
Solution – find smes that can replicate or understand the error
Cost per sp in one iteration was much higher than our average of 1000 per SP This
was because I as PO didnʼt account for dev time while doing discovery. Didnt set
up stories that reflect discovery work (getting on calls etc.)
Behavioral experiences
102

--- PAGE 103 ---
Example of pivoting execution and slicing iterative work
We werent getting providers for feedback on multiclaim data entry screen
Sliced the work so that we are shipping value without changing their existing
workflow
This also bought us time to recruit providers. Got 4 weeks for feedback
Behavioral experiences
103

--- PAGE 104 ---
Usual project stats
We estimated 71 story points in total for PIS if we were changing the existing
app
Which is about 1.5 PIs. Which is approx 4.5 months
Each slice was estimated at 2 iterations
PIS research objectives
   Current MPS users  44%  - are we breaking their current experience? The
new experience shouldnʼt ruin existing workflow
   Mail/fax  40%  - we arent really making it easier. But easy enough that would
be willing to switch over
   Batch load  16%  - making it easier little bit for high usage. But this is at risk
from security as it is currently using one drive
Execution skills
Decision 1 – build a new app or use existing app or clone the existing app and
work in parallel
We didnʼt get provider feedback so it was risky to make changes to the existing
app as there would be no roll back plan. The backlog was running out of work and
carebears capacity was freed up for this project. Even though the backend
Behavioral experiences
104

--- PAGE 105 ---
infrastructure was built to support multiple claims, it was built on the v2 (clone
version) that would require rework to absorb on the current app.
We would need to wait for provider feedback till any front end work would start.
Testing for qa would be hard as the team wasnʼt well versed with the app and all
its edge cases.
Decided to build on clone version of existing app so that front end work can start
without waiting for provider feedback. Better roll out plan. Backend already built to
support this. This wouldnʼt impact overall effort or cost. Better testing to compare
before after. a/b testing for providers
Decision 2 – slices and prioritization
Figured what slices would look like in both cases. Option would delay the build of
core value. Risk of less resources by then.
Option 2 prioritized build and testing of core value. In the first PI potentially only
that would get built so we only needed to figure dependencies until max slice 2
Velocity is 10 SP per iteration for our team
Behavioral experiences
105

--- PAGE 106 ---
Challenges with a new team of devs
Hejun constantly said pis tickets are blocked. They'd do the bare minimum and
say we're blocked. By po, by business.
Tickets shouldnʼt have been pulled into the sprint if they werent ready
They started pulling new tickets in while 3 tickets were in blocked state.
I tried to understand what is blockig them and they said by sme who wanted a
certain data table to be used as source of truth to populate our cost tables. But
we didnʼt have those tables stored on our end so that was the reason dev said
we were blocked.
I got a sr dev to get on call with us to try and figure other approaches that
didnʼt rely solely on what sme said
Madhu identified our approach along with solutions architect
briefly chatted about our plan with Michael Jo, he is ok with our plan.
Behavioral experiences
106

--- PAGE 107 ---
will start investigating the FeeCodeBuildFunction sensor to see if we can bring
in more periods for each fee code (from CMS HUB into Table storage). in
which case, we shall then query the fee code more accurately. it will also
benefit us for the future story work to filter out fee code.
once we have the fee codes from multiple periods into our table storage, we
will check the Azure Search service to reindex the data (may need to modify
the setup there as well).
next, make the UI tweak for PIS invoice entry form, to ensure we will force the
user to provide a Date of Service value, otherwise we will not trigger the Fee
Code search. The backend PIS.API will also require a change to take an input
parameter for Date of Service. Use that date to filter and match the Fee Code.
he also mentioned that in the future we might want to move
that FeeCode refresh logic into ADF, and get rid of the FCN sensor thing. but
that is not for today.
PI planning
   Pre PI planning meeting – must have dependencies, features, slices and at
least 2 iterations worth of work figured out before this meeting. This meeting is
go over the project and chat through dependencies. Answer any project
related questions
Example of prioritization and why it didnʼt change after user feedback
User feedback preferred csv upload but slices prioritized manual entry of
multiple claims first
Why PIS was an interesting and challenging project
Had to work with assumptions as there were no providers we could chat with
High risk and heavy usage app
Behavioral experiences
107

--- PAGE 108 ---
Tidbits
Devs want to know what functions or apps will need to be touched.
They want to see diagrams upfront when a change is introduced
Dev personalities
Sr dev (madhu) doesnʼt read ACs. Doesnʼt want long stories or more detail. All
she needs is an empty shell story to strat work then she will ask questions or
work with assumptions get quick feedback. Will research herself or be far
ahead of POs themselves
Conflict with QA
On role definition – he keeps comparing to QAs of other teams and doesnʼt quite
drive testing
Started to impact product performance and launch timelines
Needed to ask for more budget to get extra time for a robust testing strategy
Demands that he builds test cases based on AC and requirements and if it is not
there it gets missed in testing
About comparing to other team QAs. - had to explain our team needs him to
step up. We have 1 sr devs but a majority of junior devs which is not the same
with other teams. Relying on the sr dev for a robust test coverage wasnʼt
helpful. We needed his expertise early on.
Tried out small nudges for example explicitly calling him out when we needed
his help. For example when a new feature is being introduced to devs and
while they get busy solutioning we asked him to start thinking about he would
test it. Get clear etas on when he can suggest his plan. At next refinement he
presents it to the team and enables devs to write their own test cases and test
it out
Clarified why relying on AC and requirements is not a good idea. For example –
if the AC says user should be able to upload a 10 mg jpg. The AC doesnʼt
Behavioral experiences
108

--- PAGE 109 ---
explicitly inform the test coverage such as the following will need to be tested
too
other file types, other file sizes, corrupted file, naming conventions that are
accepted by the uploader
User story was getting delayed – performance user story was estimated to get
completed in 2 sprints. Got delayed to three sprints
Performance for 85 line items was acceptable
Performance at 195 line items was slow
Performance wasnʼt consistent across machines/ systems being used to test
We tried reducing the requirement from 2000 line items to 200 still the same
issue
Realized this was being test on SY that is 4 times lower/ slower capacity wise
than production. So while it was slow on sy, it was performing relatively
quicker on prod
We needed a way to replication prod env as closely as possible . See
screenshot below
Behavioral experiences
109

--- PAGE 110 ---
previously the SY is running on 1 vCPU server plan
now it is 4 vCPU plan
   Points of conflict/ mistakes / failure? Delivered only 50% of the value (multi-
claim and multi-invoice)/ time where quality/ user experience was prioritized
over speed. Decisions you made that improved the overall outcome of a
product
Performance optimization took 6 weeks/ 3 sprints. Derailing timelines.
Behavioral experiences
110

--- PAGE 111 ---
To drive a good outcome for the tool this was required. Goal of the project
was to scale the experience to high volume providers/ other provider
types. While dogfooding team realized performance wasnʼt at par. User
experience was getting impacted. Speed was extremely slow while saving/
editing line items and uploading documents.
Needed to try out different testing strategies such as throttling vs no
throttling, different environments. Took long because this was the first time
the team was working on performance optimization, there were
no worksafe stands on performance metrics such as page load times etc.
Philosophy – whatever gets shipped must be high quality even if that
means 50% of the value couldn't delivered
Conflict with manager over inline editing (time where functional requirement
was prioritized over user experience and quality)
Scope creep after demo. Demoed adding new line items and editing line items.
Feedback was to include inline editing which was estimated to be at 13 SPs. 1SP
being at $2000, this was about $26,000. At about 2 sprints including testing.
Without it, users would need to click into every line, edit it, save it, that is 2 clicks
per edit. So if a user were to edit 10 lines, they basically had to click 20 times.
While this wasnʼt the best user experience it was more important that users were
able to send invoices in the first place. If that doesnʼt get shipped, there could be
payment delays.
Approaches
Behavioral experiences
111

--- PAGE 112 ---
Tried to get the estimate down to 8 SPs – get inline editing but it doesnʼt look
and feel intuitive – users wont be able to tell that these fields are editable
reminded that while we were trying to scale this to high volume users, we still
had 50% low volume users invoicing at most 5 line items per submission. So it
wasnʼt unreasonable to assume it wouldnʼt be too cumbersome to continue
with the same click to edit workflow as we expected adoption to take time. So
we could prioritize shipping a functional workflow first and then working on
the user experience. At least this woudlnt prevent users from submitting
invoices.
Rationale – this user experience wasnʼt a functional blocker so it could be
separated as an improvement for after
Outcome – manager agreed to get the functional requirement out first
Conflict over requirements for batch (user experience was functional
requirements. Couldnʼt ship without UX or put it in another slice. Was required
for the minimum releasable slice. This increased the time to delivery and we
went overbudget. UX was functional requirements because it affected how the
product worked. It wasnʼt just how it looked or felt)
Guiding rationale
“If we donʼt build this UX detail, would the product still work as intended?”
If yes  →  itʼs design guidance
If no  →  itʼs a functional requirement
Another quick test:
“Would QA write test cases for this?”
If yes, itʼs functional.
For the batch UX determined what the invoice tool must do
Batch upload sheet view required ux/ui to limit rows uploaded to 200 – if this
was not done and users uploaded more than 200, the tool would crash
Batch load should be able to append rows from manual entry if they start the
manual entry experience and decide to switch to bulk midway. They shouldnʼt
lose the rows they previously entered. This would be redundant work.
Behavioral experiences
112

--- PAGE 113 ---
   Killed a feature (batch load) - Let business stakeholders down but saved
$250K in development costs (building the wrong thing)
   Showed long term conviction over short term pressure
   Showed strategic systems thinking (mapped how strategy, incentives and
systems collide)
For PIS –
Initial budget asked
50K for discovery – PO costs
300K   MMP1
150K   MMP2
With 2 months left and about 20 SP left, we didnʼt have capacity to build and ship
50% of the value. This was all the high volume providers. We needed at least
$200K more to do so for the 38 SPs we had forecasted.
Prioritized low/medium volume providers over high volume
Segmentation exercise
With few features we could get 50% of the paper users adopted to the digital
tool
The same couldnʼt be done for the high volume providers who had very
specific workflows. Needed system integrations to actually solve
their painpoints and support workflows. Example hearing aid providers were
already digitally faxing us so technically they werent on paper. But our
systems couldnʼt absorb digital fax. Those faxes would still need to go to elan
 $$) to be processed before they are fed into our system. They would need to
do redundant manual work when using our tool   bad user experience. What
we needed was secure b2b integrations to have data flow seamlessly and
avoid work for providers.
Behavioral experiences
113

--- PAGE 114 ---
Harm's pitch for PIS funsing for batch load - Seeking additional funding to add a
batch loading feature that has been increasingly requested by certain providers in
our conversations (with both experience team and HCOps teams). This builds
upon the multi-claim work that we are already building and planning to release. To
increase certainty of adoption, we are adding language in contracts that these
certain providers must use our digital channels for invoicing, and this additional
feature will help with both adoption and reception.
25% of ELAN volume is UNPAC =  $590k
25% of UNPAC volume are high-volume providers and being targeted by the batch
upload = $220k
75% of UNPACs are being targeted by the multi-claim feature = $440k
<insert example of scaled ARR for PIS  
Rashmi feedback (gabe PM feedback for PO 
a fellow PM has been put on a performance improvement plan. feedback from
their manager is that they fail to hold devs accountable, dont get accurate
estimates that inform timelines and as a result are falling behind delivery
schedules. other pieces of feedback were they struggle to pushback. provide
context on each one of these pieces of feedback, what results in these and hot to
get better at each
Oof — thatʼs a rough spot to be in, but also very fixable. Whatʼs interesting is that
all three signals you listed usually stem from the same root causes, not three
separate failures. Iʼll break each one down with context →  why it happens →  how
to get better, and Iʼll call out the overlaps so itʼs clear where to focus.
1. “Fails to hold developers accountable”
Behavioral experiences
114

--- PAGE 115 ---
What this actually means in PM terms
This rarely means “yells at devs” or “micromanages.” Managers usually mean:
Commitments are made and missed without consequence
Slippage is discovered late rather than surfaced early
Work expands silently (scope creep, hidden complexity)
The PM accepts “weʼll see” instead of dates, risks, or tradeoffs
In other words: delivery lacks ownership and predictability.
What typically causes this
PM treats devs as “service providers” instead of partners with shared delivery
goals
Fear of damaging relationships →  avoids uncomfortable follow-ups
No explicit agreement on what done means and by when
Over-reliance on trust instead of visibility (no checkpoints)
How to get better (very practical)
Shift from personal accountability to process accountability.
Concrete tactics:
Make commitments explicit and public
“So weʼre aligned: API X will be merged by Thurs EOD, blocked only by Y.”
Add lightweight checkpoints
Mid-sprint check: “Are we still on track? If not, what changed?”
Ask for risks, not promises
“What could make this slip?” instead of “Can you do this by Friday?”
Escalate neutrally
“Given this slipped twice, we need to re-plan or de-scope. Which do you
recommend?”
Behavioral experiences
115

--- PAGE 116 ---
Accountability feels less confrontational when itʼs about protecting the plan, not
judging the person.
2. “Doesnʼt get accurate estimates that inform
timelines”
What this really means
Managers arenʼt expecting perfect estimates. Theyʼre flagging:
Timelines are treated as guesses rather than ranges
Estimates donʼt improve over time
Unknowns arenʼt called out early
Leadership is surprised by delays
This is about forecasting maturity, not math.
Common root causes
PM accepts “3 4 weeks” without probing assumptions
Estimates are gathered before scope is concrete
No distinction between:
dev effort vs total delivery time
best-case vs realistic vs worst-case
PM doesnʼt pressure-test optimism
How to get better
Turn estimates into scenarios instead of dates.
What good PMs do:
Ask for ranges + confidence
“Whatʼs the 80% confidence timeline?”
Separate build time vs readiness time
Behavioral experiences
116

--- PAGE 117 ---
Dev complete ≠  test, integration, rollout
Force assumptions into the open
“This assumes no API changes — correct?”
Track estimate accuracy over time
“Weʼre consistently  30%. Letʼs plan with that bias.”
Simple framing that helps:
“If we had to commit externally, what date would you feel safe defending?”
3. “Struggles to push back”
What managers usually see here
PM agrees to unrealistic timelines
Accepts scope additions mid-stream
Doesnʼt challenge leadership or stakeholder asks
Optimizes for harmony over outcomes
This is a decision-ownership problem, not a personality flaw.
Why this happens
PM role confusion (“Iʼm here to facilitate, not decide”)
Fear of appearing uncooperative or negative
Lack of data to support pushback
Junior PM mindset in a role that needs senior behavior
How to get better
Reframe pushback as offering tradeoffs, not saying no.
High-leverage techniques:
Use options, not refusal
Behavioral experiences
117

--- PAGE 118 ---
“We can do A by X, or A B by Y — which do you want?”
Anchor on goals
“If speed is the priority, we need to drop X.”
Bring evidence
Past velocity, missed estimates, dependency risks
Pre-align with eng
Pushback lands better when PM + eng present a united front
Power sentence to practice:
“Given our current capacity and risks, hereʼs what I recommend.”
The uncomfortable truth: these are connected
If you zoom out:
Symptom Underlying issue
Canʼt hold devs accountableAvoids surfacing risk early
Inaccurate estimates Doesnʼt pressure-test assumptions
Canʼt push back Avoids conflict and ownership
This isnʼt a “bad PM.” Itʼs a PM who:
Optimizes for relationships over outcomes
Operates reactively instead of proactively
Hasnʼt yet stepped into delivery leadership
If theyʼre on a PIP: where to focus first
If I were coaching them under time pressure, Iʼd prioritize:
   Visibility over accuracy
Surface risk early, even if messy
   Explicit commitments
Behavioral experiences
118

--- PAGE 119 ---
Dates, owners, assumptions
   Tradeoff framing
Every ask gets options attached
Those three alone often flip manager perception fast.
Understanding what your team is strong at and what they are not 
devs - front end or back end. what kind of work they can take on. how does that
change under time constraints 
our team lacked UX expertise and front end design 
conflict with design - didnt get their sign off for PIS. designers saw product 2
weeks before launch and were concerned that it didnt meet wsbc standards.
worried they could get blamed for it after launch. issues with error navigation,
vertical scroll for the grid, some copy changes and styling/ colour issues for
buttons. tried to be empathetic, heard them out, apologized about how it turned
out. had a conversation on the following things 
issues with kendo - couldnt translate design requirements with the grid we
were working with 
everytime david came with an alternative there were technical limitations and
we never got a 100% of the functionality 
we lacked a dedicated front end ux expert and skillset on the team 
this prolonged time to delivery and created a lot of unused work. causing low
motivation for designers 
had devs use lovable to create prototypes of new functionality that helped
deliver functional value first as priority with the budget and time we had left 
found a middle ground to fix high priority wsbc standard issues and then fix
best practices issues after launch 
Behavioral experiences
119

--- PAGE 120 ---
lessons learnt from previous products impacting UX 
retry queue was required for wor. implemented retry queue for PIS as well 
when providers were submitting on pis v1, it would get submitted to cms
synchronously so the provider would know immediately if their request was
submitted successfully or not. but because we were trying to scale the volume
submitted, we had to move to async updates to cms. but in this case if it fails
providers would never know that they request hasnt reached cms., even
though the portal got their info successfully. so we have a queue that would
retry submission to cms. if it still fails, devs would get an email about failure
after retry that needs to get submitted manually. this was done to not
deteriorate provider experience 
Behavioral experiences
120

================================================================================
FILE: what could have been done better.pdf
PAGES: 2
================================================================================
--- PAGE 1 ---
What could've been done better 
Wednesday, September 18, 2024 11:35 AM 
1. Maintain team's morale on the bceid project • Scope changed multiple times  • No clarity into telus' systems and processes  • Poor contract deisgn (who should be paying for what) • Poor SLAs • Wrong people getting in touch very early on the project 
2. Getting POs, PMs, BEs, SMs together to talk about expectations, role and responsibilities  • What counts as project incidents • What is po'r role wrt to incidents  • How to main 50% project work and 50% sustenance and incident work 
3. Months went by before we had clarity what the deadline from the gov was. Whether march 2025was the end of new user registration or for current users to not be able to access accountsanymore or both?  Now we need to ask for extension for both. 
We could have captured emails before hand so that we can transfer their accounts to forgerock. Ow it istoo late. This shouldve been done before our own forgerock transfer.  I had suggested this to the team before and it was shut down  • Create a new page to capture email addresses first and then transfer accounts to forgerock  • We could've  asked bceid users to add an email address or update their account • We werent asking for enough options or alternatives for solutions. We took everything they saidat face value    
How to get email addresses from bceid users so that we can transfer them to forgerock? Problem – telus nor the prov govt collects email addresses  Bceid uses only username and forgerock uses only email address  How to transfer and match accounts ?  1. Have user update contact email address within bceid  2. Use banners for above  3. Reach out to org admins of clinics (this info is on excel sheets they sue to register) 4. Telys cpr extract  

--- PAGE 2 ---


